---
title: 'Taxonomic review of the pilularius species group of the New World dung beetle genus <i>Canthon</i> Hoffmannsegg, 1817 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae: Deltochilini)'
date: '2025-04-25'
doi: 
journal: Insecta Mundi
issue: '1117'
pagination: '1–43'
zoobank: 'urn:lsid:zoobank.org:pub:8C29C575-DC3E-4D60-BCC7-B898D58DADBE'
authors:
  - first_name: 'W. J.'
    last_name: 'Edmonds'
    affiliation: '2625 SW Brae Mar Ct. Portland, Oregon'
    email: 'wdedmonds@hotmail.com'


download: 'https://drive.google.com/file/d/15iLhvUulSeIM33gr4CtmhbLbATbsYdYe'

supplementary:

keywords:
  - Lectotype designations
  - key to species
  - species diagnoses
  - Linnaeus
  - Fabricius
  - Catesby
  - Drury

categories:
  - Coleoptera
  - Scarabaeidae
  - Scarabaeinae
  
references:
  - authors: Adler K.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Catesby’s fundamental contributions to Linnaeus’ binomial catalog of North American animals. p. 251–264. In: Nelson EC, Elliott DJ (eds.). The curious Mister Catesby: a “truly ingenious” naturalist explores new worlds. University of Georgia Press; Athens, GA'
    pages: 456 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Balthasar V.
    year: 1939
    title: 'Eine Vorstudie zur Monographie der Gattung <i>Canthon </i>Hffsg. 10. Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Scarabaeiden der neotropische Region. Folia Zoologica et Hydrobiologica 9'
    pages: 179–238
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bauer AM.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Catesby’s animals (other than birds) in The Natural History of Carolina, Florida and Bahama Islands. p. 231–250. In: Nelson EC, Elliott DJ (eds.). The curious Mister Catesby: a “truly ingenious” naturalist explores new worlds. University of Georgia Press; Athens, GA'
    pages: 456 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Blatchley WS.
    year: 1927
    title: 'The Scarabaeidae of Florida. The Florida Entomologist 11'
    pages: 55–62
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Blatchley WS.
    year: 1928
    title: 'Notes on some Florida Coleoptera with descriptions of new species. The Canadian Entomologist 60'
    pages: 60–73
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Blanchard F.
    year: 1885
    title: 'On the species of <i>Canthon </i>and <i>Phanaeus </i>of the United States with notes on other genera. Transactions of the American Entomological Society 12'
    pages: 163–169
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bouchard P, Bousquet Y, Davies AE, Cai C.
    year: 2024
    title: 'On the nomenclatural status of type genera in Coleoptera (Insecta). ZooKeys 1194'
    pages: 1–981
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bousquet Y.
    year: 2016
    title: 'Litteratura coleopterologica (1758–1900): a guide to selected books related to the taxonomy of Coleoptera with publication dates and notes. ZooKeys 583'
    pages: 1–776
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bragg AN.
    year: 1957
    title: 'Use of carrion by the beetle, <i>Canthon laevis </i>(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). The Southwestern Naturalist 2'
    pages: 173
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brown WJ.
    year: 1927
    title: 'An annotated list of the coprophagous Scarabaeidae known to occur in Oklahoma. Proceedings of the Oklahoma Academy of Science 7'
    pages: 24–28
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brown WJ.
    year: 1946
    title: 'Notes on some species of <i>Canthon </i>and <i>Dichelonyx </i>(Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae). The Canadian Entomologist 78'
    pages: 104–109
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Calhoun JV.
    year: 2008
    title: 'A glimpse into a “flora et entomologia”: The natural history of the rarer lepidopterous insects of Georgia” by J. E. Smith and J. Abbot (1797). Journal of the Lepidopterists Society 60'
    pages: 1–37
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Calvert PP.
    year: 1930
    title: '<i>Dynastes tityus </i>(scarabaeid) in Pennsylvania and the Rathvon and Auxer collections of Coleoptera. Entomological News 41'
    pages: 195–201
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Catesby M.
    year: 1747
    title: 'Appendix to Catesby M. 1729–1743. The natural history of Carolina, Florida and the Bahama islands: containing the figures of birds, beasts, fishes, serpents, insects, and plants: particularly the forest-trees, shrubs, and other plants, not hitherto described, or very incorrectly figured by authors. Together with their descriptions in English and French. To which are added, observations on the air, soil, and waters: with remarks upon agriculture, grain, pulse, roots, &c. To the whole is prefixed a new and correct map of the countries treated of. Privately published; London, UK'
    pages: 20 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: (Volume I was published in five parts dated 1729–1732; Volume II was published in five parts dated 1734–1743. The Appendix was issued in 1747 and comprised of 20 printed pages of animal and plant descriptions accompanied by 20 plates; it is sometimes inappropriately referred to as “Vol. 3” of Catesby’s classic and is often bound together with Volume 2.)

  - authors: Cupello M, Silva SAB, Vaz-de-Mello FZ.
    year: 2023
    title: 'The taxonomic revolution of New World dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae). Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution 11'
    pages: 1–42
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cupello M, Vaz de Mello FZ.
    year: 2018
    title: 'A monographic revision of the Neotropical dung beetle genus <i>Sylvicanthon </i>Halffter & Martínez, 1977 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae: Deltochilini), including a reappraisal of the taxonomic history of ‘<i>Canthon </i>sensu lato’. European Journal of Taxonomy 467'
    pages: 1–205
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Daniel GM, Davis ALV.
    year: 2023
    title: 'Dung beetle tribal classification (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae): progress, problems and prospects. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 117'
    pages: 1–13
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Dimmock G.
    year: 1884
    title: 'Order VII. Coleoptera. p. 297–402. In: Kingsley JS (ed.). The standard natural history. Edited by John Sterling Kingsley. Vol. II. Crustacea and insects. Illustrated by six hundred and sixty-six woodcuts and twenty full-page plates. S.E. Cassino & Co.; Boston'
    pages: 662 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Drury D.
    year: 1770
    title: 'Illustrations of natural history. Wherein are exhibited upwards of two hundred and forty figures of exotic insects, according to their different genera; very few of which have hitherto been figured by any author, being engraved and coloured from nature, with the greatest accuracy, and under the author’s own inspection, on fifty copper-plates. With a particular description of each insect: interspersed with remarks and reflections on the nature and properties of many of them. Vol. 1. B. White; London'
    pages: 130 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: (See Bousquet 2016 for collation details and comments.)

  - authors: Drury D.
    year: 1773
    title: 'Illustrations of natural history. Wherein are exhibited upwards of two hundred and twenty figures of exotic insects, according to their different genera; very few of which have hitherto been figured by any author, being engraved and coloured from nature, with the greatest accuracy, and under the author’s own inspection, on fifty copper-plates. With a particular description of each insect: interspersed with remarks and reflections on the nature and properties of many of them. Vol. 2. B. White; London'
    pages: 90 p. [+ indices to volumes 1 and 2]
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: (See Bousquet 2016 for collation details and comments.)

  - authors: Dubois A, Nemésio A, Bour R.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Primary, secondary and tertiary syntypes and virtual lectotype designation in zoological nomenclature, with comments on the recent designation of lectotype for <i>Elephas maximus </i>Linnaeus, 1758. Bionomina 7'
    pages: 45–64
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Duponchel P.
    year: 1842
    title: '<i>Canthon</i>. <i>Capnodis</i>. <i>Cardiorhinus</i>. <i>Ceraspis</i>. In: Orbigny C. d’ (ed.). Dictionnaire universel d’histoire naturelle... Tome troisième. [Livraisons 27, 28, 29]. MM. Renard, Martinet et Cie., Paris'
    pages: p. 131
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Edmonds WD.
    year: 2018
    title: 'The dung beetle fauna of the Big Bend region of Texas (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Insecta Mundi 0642'
    pages: 1–30
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Edmonds WD.
    year: 2022
    title: 'Taxonomic review of the North American dung beetle genus <i>Boreocanthon </i>Halffter, 1958 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae: Deltochilini). Insecta Mundi 0952'
    pages: 1–65
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Edmonds WD.
    year: 2023
    title: 'Taxonomic review of the North American dung beetle genus <i>Melanoocanthon </i>Halffter, 1958 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae: Deltochilini). Insecta Mundi 1014'
    pages: 1–28
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Erichson WF.
    year: 1847
    title: 'Naturgeschichte der Insecten Deutschlands. Erste Abtheilung. Coleoptera. Dritter Band. Fünfte Lieferung'
    pages: p. 641–800
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: Nicolaische Buchhandlung, Berlin

  - authors: Fabricius JC.
    year: 1792
    title: 'Entomologia systematica emendata et aucta. Secundum classes, ordines, genera, species adjectis synonimis, locis, observationibus, descriptionibus. Tom. I, Pars I. Christ. Gottl. Proft; Copenhagen, Denmark'
    pages: 330 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fabricius JC.
    year: 1801
    title: 'Systema eleutheratorvm secvndvm ordines, genera, species: adiectis synonymis, locis, observationibvs, descriptionibvs. Tomvs I. Bibliopolii Academici Novi; Kiel, Germany'
    pages: 506 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fincher GT.
    year: 1986
    title: 'Importation, colonization, and release of dung-burying scarabs. Entomological Society of America, Miscellaneous Publication No. 61'
    pages: 69–76
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fincher GT, Blume RR, Hunter III JS, Beerwinkle KR.
    year: 1986
    title: 'Seasonal distribution and diel flight activity of dung-feeding scarabs in open and wooded pasture in east-central Texas. Southwestern Entomologist, Supplement 10'
    pages: 1–35
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Forster JR.
    year: 1771
    title: 'Novae species insectorum. Centuria I. T. Davies et B. White; London'
    pages: 100 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Freese EL, Veal DA, Lago PK.
    year: 2020
    title: 'The Scarabaeoidea (Coleoptera) of Iowa: An annotated checklist. Insecta Mundi 0787'
    pages: 1–83
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Génier F.
    year: 2019
    title: 'On the identity of <i>Canthon imitator floridanus </i>Brown, 1946 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae). The Coleopterists Bulletin 73'
    pages: 300–306
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Goldstein PZ, Simmons T.
    year: 2002
    title: 'A checklist and commentary on the scarabaeid fauna of the Massachusetts offshore islands (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Journal of the New York Entomological Society 110'
    pages: 389–401
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gordon RD, Cartwright OL.
    year: 1974
    title: 'Survey of food preferences of some North American Canthonini. Entomological News 85'
    pages: 181–185
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Haldeman SS.
    year: 1843
    title: 'Descriptions of North American species of Coleoptera, presumed to be undescribed. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 1'
    pages: 298–304
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Halffter G.
    year: 1958
    title: 'Dos nuevos géneros de Canthonini (Col. Scarabaeidae). Ciencia (Mexico) 17'
    pages: 207–212
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Halffter G.
    year: 1961
    title: 'Monografía de las especies norteamericanas del género <i>Canthon </i>Hoffsg. (Coleopt. Scarab.) Ciencia (Mexico) 20'
    pages: 225–320
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Halffter G, Edmonds WD.
    year: 1981
    title: 'The nesting behavior of dung beetles (Scarabaeinae), an ecological and evolutive approach. Instituto de Ecología; Mexico City'
    pages: 176 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Halffter G, Espinoza de los Monteros A, Nolasco-Soto J, Arriaga-Jiménez A, Rivera-Gasperín S.
    year: 2022
    title: '<i>Bajacanthon</i>, a new subgenus for the Mexican Deltochilini (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae) fauna. Diversity 14 (109)'
    pages: 1–13
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Halffter G, Matthews EG.
    year: 1966
    title: 'The natural history of dung beetles of the subfamily Scarabaeinae. Folia Entomológica Mexicana, Números 12–14'
    pages: 1–312
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Halffter G, Morrone JJ.
    year: 2017
    title: 'An analytical review of Halffter’s Mexican transition zone, and its relevance for evolutionary biogeography, ecology and biogeographical regionalization. Zootaxa 4226'
    pages: 1–46
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Halffter G, Rivera Cervantes LE, Halffter V.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Diversificación del grupo humectus del género <i>Canthon </i>(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae) en el occidente de México. Acta Zoológica Mexicana 31'
    pages: 208–220
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Harold E von.
    year: 1868
    title: 'Monographie der Gattung <i>Canthon</i>. Berliner Entomologische Zeitschrift 12'
    pages: 1–144
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Harold E von.
    year: 1869
    title: 'Vol. 4, Scarabaeidae. In: Gemminger M, Harold E von. Catalogus coleopterorum hucusque descriptorum synonymicus et systematicus. Gummi; Munich'
    pages: 368 p. [numbered 979–1346]
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Harold E von.
    year: 1870
    title: 'Berichtigungen und Zusätze zum Catalogus Coleopterorum synonymicus et systematicus. Coleopterologische Hefte 7'
    pages: 94–111
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hayek CMF von.
    year: 1985
    title: 'On the type material of the species of Coleoptera described from the Drury collection by D. Drury and J. C. Fabricius with notes on some Coleoptera from the Milne collection preserved in the British Museum (Natural History). Archives of Natural History 12'
    pages: 143–152
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hoffmannsegg JC von.
    year: 1817
    title: 'Entomologische Bemerkungen bei Gelegenheit der Abhandlungen über amerikanischen Insecten, in der vierten nach sechten Lieferung von den Recueils d’observations de Zoologie et d’Anatomie comparée, oder dem zten Theile der Reise, der Herren A. v. Humboldt und A. Bonpland, nemlich: No. IX. In Livr. 4. p. 197–283. und No. XI. XII. In Livr. 5. 6. p. 294–397. Zoologische Magazin 1'
    pages: 8–56
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hope FW.
    year: 1837
    title: 'The coleopterist’s manual, containing the lamellicorn insects of Linneus [sic] and Fabricius. Henry G. Bond; London'
    pages: 121 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hope FW.
    year: 1838
    title: 'Observations on the lamellicorns of Olivier. The Entomological Magazine 5'
    pages: 312–326
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Horn GH.
    year: 1870
    title: 'Notes on some genera of coprophagous Scarabaeidae of the United States. Transactions of the American Entomological Society 3'
    pages: 42–51
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gaedike R.
    year: 1990
    title: 'Collectiones entomologicae. Ein Kompendius über den Verbleib entomologischer Sammlungen der Welt bis 1960. Teil I: A bis K. Berlin; Akademie der Landwirtschaftswissenschaften der Deutschen Demokratischen Republik'
    pages: 220 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: ICZN [International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature].
    year: 1957
    title: 'Opinion 474 (Case 930) Determination of the dates to be assigned for the purposes of the Law of Priority to the names published in Dru Drury’s <i>Illustrations of Natural History </i>in the period 1770–1782. Opinions and Declarations rendered by the ICZN, 16(16)'
    pages: 297–306
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: ICZN [International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature].
    year: 1999
    title: 'International Code of Zoological Nomenclature. Fourth Edition. The International Trust for Zoological Nomenclature; London'
    pages: 306 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Illiger JKW.
    year: 1803
    title: 'Verzeichniss der in Portugall einheimischen Käfer. Erste Lieferung. Magazin für Insektekunde 2'
    pages: 168–247
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kadiri N, Lumaret J-P, Floate KD.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Functional diversity and seasonal activity of dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea) on native grasslands in southern Alberta, Canada. Canadian Entomologist 146'
    pages: 291–305
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kohlmann B, Halffter G.
    year: 1990
    title: 'Reconstruction of a specific example of insect invasion waves: The cladistic analysis of <i>Canthon </i>(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) and related genera in North America. Quaestiones Entomologicae 26'
    pages: 1–20
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Krell F-T.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Catalogue of Colorado scarab and stag beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea), based on literature records. DMNS Technical Report 2010–4. Denver; Denver Museum of Nature and Science. 84 p. Kriska NL, Young DK 2002. An annotated checklist of Wisconsin Scarabaeoidea (Coleoptera). Insecta Mundi 16'
    pages: 31–48
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Landin B-O.
    year: 1956
    title: 'The Linnean species of Lamellicornia described in “Systema Naturae”, Ed. X (1758). (Col.). Entomologisk Tidskrift 77'
    pages: 1–18
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lane F.
    year: 1947
    title: 'Sobre os tipos e a sinonimia de alguns Canthonini (Col. Scarabaeidae). II. Papéis Avulsos do Departamento de Zoologia 9'
    pages: 109–121
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lane F.
    year: 1950
    title: 'Sobre os tipos e a sinonimia de alguns Canthonini (Col. Scarabaeidae). III. Nota sobre a data certa de <i>Canthon laevis </i>Drury. Papéis Avulsos do Departamento de Zoologia 9'
    pages: 79–82
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Latreille PA.
    year: 1812
    title: 'Insectes de l’Amérique équinoxiale, recueillis pendant le voyage de MM. de Humboldt et Bonpland. In: Recueil d’observations de zoologie et d’anatomie comparée; faites dans l’océan Atlantique, dans l’intérieur du nouveau continent et dans la mer du sud, pendant les années 1799, 1800, 1801, 1802 et 1803, par Al. de Humboldt et A. Bonpland. Premier Volume (Second edition). F. Schell, G. Dufour; Paris'
    pages: 368 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: (The second edition carries the publication date 1811 on the title page but was issued in 1812. See Bousquet 2016.)

  - authors: Latreille PA.
    year: 1829
    title: 'Le règne animal distribué d’après son organisation, pour servir de base à l’histoire naturelle des animaux et d’introduction à l’anatomie comparée. Par M. le Baron Cuvier. Avec figures, dessinées d’après nature. Nouvelle édition, revue et augmentée. Tome IV. Crustacés, arachnides et partie des insectes. Déterville; Paris'
    pages: 584 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: LeConte JL.
    year: 1858
    title: 'Catalogue of Coleoptera of the regions adjacent to the boundary line between the United States and Mexico. Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia (Series 2) 4'
    pages: 9–42
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: LeConte JL.
    year: 1859
    title: 'The Coleoptera of Kansas and eastern New Mexico. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Volume 2, Article 6'
    pages: 58 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: LeConte JL.
    year: 1863
    title: 'List of the Coleoptera of North America, prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. Part 1. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections No. 140. Smithsonian Institution: Washington D.C.'
    pages: 50 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Legner EF.
    year: 1978
    title: 'Part I. Parasites and predators introduced against arthropod pests. Diptera. p. 346–355. In: Bartlett BR, Clausen CP (eds.). Introduced parasites and predators of arthropod pests and weeds: A world review. United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Handbook No. 48. USDA-ARS; Washington, DC'
    pages: 545 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Leng CW.
    year: 1920
    title: 'Catalogue of the Coleoptera of America, north of Mexico. John D. Sherman: Mount Vernon, NY'
    pages: 470 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lindquist AW.
    year: 1935
    title: 'Notes on the habits of certain coprophagous beetles and methods of rearing them. United States Department of Agriculture Circular No. 351'
    pages: 9 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linnaeus C.
    year: 1758
    title: 'Systema naturae per regna tria naturae, secundum classes, ordines, genera, species, cum characteribus, differentiis, synonymis, locis. Tomus I. Editio decima, reformata. Laurentii Salvii; Stockholm'
    pages: 823 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linnaeus C.
    year: 1764
    title: 'Museum S:ae R:ae M:tis Ludovicae Ulricae Reginae Svecorum, Gothorum, Vandalorumque &c. &c. &c. In quo animalia rariora, exotica, imprimis insecta & conchilia describuntur & determinantur. Prodromi instar editum. Laurentii Salvii; Stockholm'
    pages: 720 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linnaeus C.
    year: 1767
    title: 'Systema naturae per regna tria naturae, secundum classes, ordines, genera, species, cum characteribus, differentiis, synonymis, locis. Editio duodecima, reformata. Tom. I. Pars II. Laurentii Salvii; Stockholm'
    pages: 795 p. [numbered 533–1327]
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Majka CG, Chandler DS, Donahue CP.
    year: 2011
    title: 'Checklist of the beetles of Maine, USA. Empty Mirrors Press; Halifax, NS'
    pages: 328 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mamantov MA, Sheldon KS.
    year: 2023
    title: 'Seasonality, distribution and diversity of dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae, Aphodiinae and Geotrupidae: Geotrupinae) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The Coleopterists Bulletin 77'
    pages: 285–295
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Matthews EG.
    year: 1963
    title: 'Observations on the ball-rolling behavior of <i>Canthon pilularius </i>(L.) (Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae). Psyche 70'
    pages: 75–93
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Medina CA, Scholtz CH, Gill BD.
    year: 2003
    title: 'Morphological variation and systematics of <i>Canthon </i>Hoffmannsegg 1817, and related genera of New World Cathonini dung beetles (Coleoptera, Scarabaeinae). Deutsche Entomologische Zeitschrift 50'
    pages: 23–68
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Melsheimer FE.
    year: 1853
    title: 'Catalogue of the described Coleoptera of the United States. Smithsonian Institution; Washington D. C.'
    pages: 174 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: (revised by S. S. Haldeman and J. L. LeConte)

  - authors: Miller A.
    year: 1954
    title: 'Dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) and other insects in relation to human feces in a hookworm area of southern Georgia. The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 3'
    pages: 372–389
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mulsant ME.
    year: 1842
    title: 'Histoire naturelle des coléoptères de France. Maison, Libraire ; Paris'
    pages: 304 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nemes SN, Price DL.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Illustrated keys to the Scarabaeinae (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) of Maryland. Northeastern Naturalist 22'
    pages: 318–344
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nishida GM.
    year: 2002
    title: 'Hawaiian terrestrial arthropod checklist. Fourth edition. Bishop Museum Technical Report No. 22. Hawaii Biological Survey; Honolulu, HI'
    pages: 313 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nolasco-Soto J, González-Astorga J, Espinosa de los Monteros A, Favila ME.
    year: 2023
    title: 'Evolutionary history and diversity in the ball roller beetle <i>Canthon cyanellus</i>. Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution 10'
    pages: 1066439
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nunes LG de OA, Nunes RV, Vaz de Mello FZ.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Taxonomic revision of the South American subgenus <i>Canthon </i>(<i>Goniocanthon</i>) Pereira & Martínez, 1956 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae: Deltochilini). European Journal of Taxonomy 437'
    pages: 1–31
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nunes LG de OA, Nunes RV, Vaz de Mello FZ.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Taxonomic revision of the South American subgenus <i>Canthon </i>(<i>Peltecanthon</i>) Pereira, 1953 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae: Deltochilini). European Journal of Taxonomy 594'
    pages: 1
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Olivier G-A.
    year: 1789
    title: 'No. 3. Scarabé. <i>Scarabaeus</i>. In: Entomologie, ou histoire naturelle des insectes, avec leurs caractères génériques et spécifiques, leur description, leur synonymie, et leur figure enluminée. Coléoptères. Tome premier. Baudouin; Paris, France'
    pages:  433 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: (This volume treats eight genera, each paginated separately; No. 3 is Scarabaeus, paginated 1–190. See Bousquet 2016)

  - authors: Olivier G-A.
    year: 1790
    title: 'Encyclopedie méthodique. Histoire naturelle. Insectes. Vol. 5. Panckoucke Librarie; Paris, France'
    pages: 793 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Paulian R.
    year: 1939
    title: 'Contribution a l’etude des Canthonides américains [Coleopt. Lamellic.]. Annales de la Société Entomologique de France 108'
    pages: 1–48
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Peck SB, Howden HF.
    year: 1985
    title: 'Biogeography of scavenging scarab beetles in the Florida Keys: post-Pleistocene land-bridge islands. Canadian Journal of Zoology 63'
    pages: 2730–2737
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pokhrel MR, Cairns SC, Hemmings Z, Floate KD, Andrew NR.
    year: 2021
    title: 'A review of dung beetle introductions in the Antipodes and North America: Status, opportunities, and challenges. Environmental Entomology 50'
    pages: 762–780
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Price DL, Ratcliffe B.
    year: 2023
    title: 'The scarabaeoid beetles of Maryland (Coleoptera). Bulletin of the University of Nebraska State Museum 33'
    pages: 1–330
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ray J.
    year: 1710
    title: 'Historia insectorum. A.&J. Churchill; London'
    pages: 400 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Reiche L.
    year: 1841
    title: 'Tableau d’une division systématique de la tribu des coprophages, dans la famille des lamellicornes. Revue Zoologique 1841'
    pages: 211–213
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Reiche L.
    year: 1842
    title: 'D’une classification methodique de la tribu des coprophages, famille des Lamellicornes, division des Scaraboeides [sic], Coléoptères, Pentamères. Annales de la Société Entomologique de France 11'
    pages: 59–94
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Reveal JL.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Identification of the plants and animals illustrated by Mark Catesby for The Natural History of Carolina, Florida and the Bahama Islands. p. 331–350. In: Nelson EC, Elliott DJ (eds.). The curious Mister Catesby: a “truly ingenious” naturalist explores new worlds. University of Georgia Press; Athens, GA'
    pages: 456 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Robinson M.
    year: 1948
    title: 'A review of the species of <i>Canthon </i>inhabiting the United States. Transactions of the American Entomological Society 74'
    pages: 83–99
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Say T.
    year: 1824
    title: 'American entomology, or descriptions of the insects of North America. Illustrated by coloured figures from original drawings executed from nature. [Vol. 1] Samuel Augustus Mitchell; Philadelphia'
    pages: 105 p. [unnumbered], 18 plates [I–XVIII]
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schmidt A.
    year: 1920
    title: 'Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Gattungen <i>Canthon </i>Hffsg., <i>Sybax </i>Boh., <i>Aphodius </i>Ill., <i>Simogenius </i>Har., <i>Ataenius </i>Har. Archiv für Naturgeschichte 86'
    pages: 114–147
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schmidt A.
    year: 1922
    title: '1. Bestimmungstabelle der mir bekannten <i>Canthon</i>-Arten. 2. Verbreitungsgebiete der <i>Canthon</i>-Arten. 3. Neubeschreibungen von <i>Canthon</i>, <i>Saprositis</i>, <i>Mendidius</i>, <i>Euparia</i>, und <i>Ataenius</i>. Archiv für Naturgeschichte 88'
    pages: 61–103
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Smith JE, Abbot J.
    year: 1797
    title: 'The natural history of the rarer lepidopterous insects of Georgia: including their systematic characters, the particulars of their several metamorphoses, and the plants on which they feed. Collected from the observation of Mr. John Abbot, many years resident in that country. Vol.1, 2. J. Edwards, Cadell et Davies, J. White; London'
    pages: 314 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Solís A, Kohlmann B.
    year: 2002
    title: 'El género <i>Canthon </i>(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) en Costa Rica. Gironale Italiano di Entomologia 10'
    pages: 1–68
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Stanbrook R, King JR.
    year: 2021
    title: 'Dung beetle community composition affects dung turnover in subtropical US grasslands. Ecology and Evolution 12'
    pages: e8660
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1002/ece3.8660
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Viera MK, Vaz de Mello FZ, Silva FAB.
    year: 2019
    title: 'A taxonomic revision of <i>Pseudepilissus </i>Martínez, 1954 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae). Insect Systematics & Evolution 51'
    pages: 696–752
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Vulcano MA, Pereira FS.
    year: 1964
    title: 'Catalogue of the Canthonini (Col. Scarab.). Entomologischen Arbeiten aus dem Museum G. Frey, Tutzing 15'
    pages: 570–685
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wagner PM, Abagandura GO, Mamo M, Weissling T, Wingeyer A, Bradshaw JD.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Abundance and diversity of dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea) as affected by grazing management in Nebraska sandhills ecosystem. Environmental Entomology 50'
    pages: 222–231
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wallace FL, Drew WA.
    year: 1965
    title: 'The Scarabaeinae of Oklahoma. Proceedings of the Oklahoma Academy of Science 45'
    pages: 82–93
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wallin L.
    year: 2001
    title: 'Catalogue of type specimens. Part 4. Linnean specimens. Version 6. Uppsala University Museum of Evolution, Zoology Section'
    pages: 128 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wheeler AG Jr., Miller GL.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Simon Snyder Rathvon: Popularizer of agricultural entomology in mid-19th century America. American Entomologist 52'
    pages: 36–47
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Whipple SD, Hoback WW.
    year: 2012
    title: 'A comparison of dung beetle (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) attraction to native and exotic mammal dung. Environmental Entomology 41'
    pages: 238–244
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Woodruff RE.
    year: 1973
    title: 'The scarab beetles of Florida (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Part I. The Laparosticti (Subfamilies: Scarabaeinae, Aphodiinae, Hybosorinae, Ochodaeinae, Geotrupinae, Acanthocerinae). Arthropods of Florida and neighboring land areas, Vol. 8. Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services; Gainesville, Florida'
    pages: 220 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ziegler D.
    year: 1846
    title: 'Descriptions of new North American Coleoptera. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 2'
    pages: 43–47
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 




abstract: 'This paper presents a taxonomic review of the pilularius species group of the genus <i>Canthon </i>Hoffmannsegg, 1817, a New World group of ball-rolling (telocoprid) dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae). This species group comprises five North American taxa: <i>Canthon vigilans </i>LeConte; <I>C</I>. <i>chalcites </i>(Haldeman); <I>C</I>. <i>pilularius </i>(Linnaeus); <I>C</I>. <i>imitator </i>Brown; and <I>C</I>. <i>floridanus </i>Brown. Each species is keyed, diagnosed, illustrated and presented with information on distribution, relationships, and biology. Nomenclatural actions taken include (a) designation of lectotype for <i>Scarabaeus pilularius </i>Linnaeus, 1758; (b) designation of lectotype for <i>Scarabaeus hudsonias </i>Forster, 1771; (c) designation of lectotype for <i>Scarabaeus laevis </i>Drury, 1773; (d) designation of lectotype and correction of type locality for <i>Scarabaeus volvens </i>Fabricius, 1792; and (e) correction of type locality for <i>Canthon floridanus </i>Brown<i>. </i>In addition, a new synonymy is designated: <i>Scarabaeus hudsonias </i>Forster, 1771, as senior objective synonym of <i>S. laevis </i>Drury, 1773.'

---