---
title: 'Revision of trachyderines related to <i>Sphaenothecus </i>from North America with description of three new genera, and new species of <i>Lophalia </i>Casey, 1912, <i>Mannophorus </i>LeConte, 1854, and <i>Ischnocnemis </i>Thomson, 1864 (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae: Cerambycinae: Trachyderini)'
date: '2024-07-26'
doi: ''
journal: Insecta Mundi
issue: '1061'
pagination: '1-94'
zoobank: 'urn:lsid:zoobank.org:pub:5671A77B-2ECB-445F-8F61-246A9E442CDE'

authors:
  - first_name: 'Bryan K.'
    last_name: 'Eya'
    affiliation: 'California Academy of Sciences 55 Music Concourse Drive, Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, CA 94118 USA'
    email: 'b_eya@hotmail.com'
    orcid: ''

download: 'https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WdlWhQ7P_Rwx7RoqFf5EEU12bLN1DYEG'

supplementary: ''

keywords:
  - Identification key
  - Mexico
  - Central America
  - taxonomy
  
categories:
  - Coleoptera
  - Cerambycidae
  - Cerambycinae
  - Trachyderini
  
references:
  - authors: Arnett RH Jr.
    year: 1962
    title: 'The beetles of the United States (A manual for identification). The Catholic University of America Press; Washington, DC'
    pages: xi + 1112 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Aurivillius C.
    year: 1912
    title: 'Cerambycidae: Cerambycinae. p. 457–458. In: Junk W, Schenkling S (eds.). Coleopterorum Catalogus pars 39 [Vol. 22]. W. Junk; Berlin'
    pages: 574 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bates HW.
    year: 1872
    title: 'On the longicorn Coleoptera of Chontales, Nicaragua. The Transactions of the Entomological Society of London 3'
    pages: 163–238
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bates HW.
    year: 1880
    title: 'Longicornia. p. 1–224, pls. I–XV. In: Bates HW, Sharp D. Biologia Centrali-Americana. Insecta, Coleoptera, Vol. 5. Porter RH.; London'
    pages: xii + 526 p. + 26 pl
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bates HW.
    year: 1885
    title: 'Supplement to Longicornia. p. 225–436 pls. XVII–XXIV. In: Bates HW, Sharp D. Biologia Centrali-Americana. Insecta, Coleoptera, Vol. 5 Porter RH.; London'
    pages:  xii + 526 p. + 26 pl
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bates HW.
    year: 1892
    title: 'Additions to the Longicornia of Mexico and Central America, with remarks on some of the previously recorded species. Transactions of the Entomological Society of London 2'
    pages: 143–183
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bester C, Robins RH.
    year: 2024
    title: '<i>Gymnothorax funebris </i>– Discover Fishes.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www.floridamuseum.ufl.edu/discover-fish/species-profiles/gymnothorax-funebris/
    access: (Last accessed May 12, 2024.)

  - authors: Bezark LG.
    year: 2024
    title: 'A Photographic Catalog of the Cerambycidae of the New World.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: http://bezbycids.com/byciddb/wdefault.asp?w=n
    access: (Last accessed November 2023.)

  - authors: Blackwelder RE.
    year: 1946
    title: 'Checklist of the coleopterous insects of Mexico, Central America, the West Indies and South America. Part 4. Bulletin of the United States National Museum; Washington D.C. 185(4)'
    pages: 551–763
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bradley JC.
    year: 1930
    title: 'A manual of the genera of beetles of America north of Mexico. Daw, Illston and Co.; Ithaca, NY'
    pages: 360 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Casey TL.
    year: 1912
    title: 'Studies in the Longicornia of North America. Memoirs on the Coleoptera 3'
    pages: 215–376
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA.
    year: 1967
    title: 'Lectotype designations of Cerambycidae in the British Museum (Natural History) (Coleoptera). Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 40(1)'
    pages: 73–81
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA.
    year: 1987
    title: 'A new Mexican Species of <i>Linsleyella </i>Chemsak (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae). The Pan-Pacific Entomologist, San Francisco 63(2)'
    pages: 145–146
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA, Linsley EG.
    year: 1974
    title: 'Reclassification, synonymy, and descriptions of some North and Central American Cerambycidae (Coleoptera). The Coleopterists Bulletin 28(4)'
    pages: 181–184
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA, Linsley EG.
    year: 1979
    title: 'New Cerambycidae from Honduras (Coleoptera). The Pan-Pacific Entomologist, San Francisco 55(4)'
    pages: 267–272
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA, Linsley EG.
    year: 1982
    title: 'New Mexican Purpuricenini (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae). The Wasmann Journal of Biology, San Francisco 40(1–2)'
    pages: 71–76
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA, Linsley EG.
    year: 1988
    title: 'Additional new species of Cerambycidae from the estación de Biologia Chamela, Mexico and environs (Coleoptera). Folia Entomologica Mexicana 77'
    pages: 123–140
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA, Linsley EG, Noguera FA.
    year: 1992
    title: 'II. Los Cerambycidae y Disteniidae de Norteamérica, Centroamérica y las Indias Occidentales (Coleoptera). Instituto de Biología, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. Listados Faunísticos de México 1992'
    pages: 1–204
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA, Noguera FA.
    year: 1993
    title: 'Annotated checklist of the Cerambycidae of the estacion de Biologia Chamela, Jalisco, Mexico (Coleoptera), with descriptions of new genera and species. Folia Entomologica Mexicana 89'
    pages: 55–102
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA, Noguera FA.
    year: 1997
    title: 'New Mexican Cerambycidae (Coleoptera). Occasional Papers of the Consortium Coleopterorum 1(1)'
    pages: 6–14
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA, Noguera FA.
    year: 1998
    title: 'Review of the genus <i>Sphaenothecus </i>Dupont (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae). The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 74(1)'
    pages: 12–26
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chemsak JA, Noguera FA.
    year: 2001
    title: 'New Mexican and Central American Cerambycidae (Coleoptera). Occasional Papers of the Consortium Coleopterorum 4(1)'
    pages: 50–55
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chevrolat LAA.
    year: 1862
    title: 'Révision des genres <i>Eriphus </i>et <i>Mallosoma </i>Serville, du groupe des Clytides, et description de trois nouveaux genres dont un doit être rapporté au groupe des Callidiites. Annales de la Société Entomologique de France (4)2'
    pages: 747–763
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Daniels CH.
    year: 1938
    title: 'The external morphology of <i>Prionus laticollis </i>Drury (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae). Thesis submitted for the degree of Master of Science, Massachusetts State College, Amherst'
    pages: ii + 45 p. + 4 pl
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Dejean PFMA.
    year: 1821
    title: 'Catalogue de la Collection de Coléoptères de M. le Baron Dejean. Imprimerie Abel Lanoë, Librairie Crevot; Paris'
    pages: 2 p. (errata) + i–viii + 136 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Dejean PFMA.
    year: 1835
    title: 'Catalogue de la collection de Coléoptères de M. le comte Dejean. Méquignon-Marvis Père and Fils; Paris, 2e. ed., livr. 4. p'
    pages: 257–360
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Dupont H.
    year: 1838
    title: 'Monographie des trachydérides de la famille des longicornes. Magasin de Zoologie 8'
    pages: i–xiii + 1–28, pls. 186–200 and p. 29–59, pl. 204–224
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: DuPorte EM.
    year: 1960
    title: 'Evolution of Cranial Structure in Adult Coleoptera. Canadian Journal of Zoology 38'
    pages: 655–675
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Eya BK.
    year: 2010
    title: 'New Mexican and Central American genera and species of Trachyderini (Coleoptera, Cerambycidae, Cerambycinae). Les Cahiers Magellanes 108'
    pages: 1–21
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Eya BK.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Revision of the Genus <i>Crioprosopus </i>Audinet-Serville, and description of three new genera of Trachyderini (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae: Cerambycinae). Zootaxa 3914(4)'
    pages: 351–405
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Eya BK.
    year: 2019
    title: 'Revision of the genus <i>Deltaspis </i>Audinet-Serville, 1834 with systematic analysis and new taxa of Trachyderini with emarginated-truncate mandibles (Insecta: Coleoptera: Cerambycidae). Zootaxa 4713(1)'
    pages: 1–62
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Eya BK.
    year: 2021
    title: 'Recharacterization of <i>Stenaspis </i>Audinet-Serville, 1834 with a new species from Mexico (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae: Cerambycinae: Trachyderini). Insecta Mundi 0851'
    pages: 1–36
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fall HC, Cockerell TDA.
    year: 1907
    title: 'The Coleoptera of New Mexico. Transactions of the American Entomological Society 33'
    pages: 145–272
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: García Morales LJ, García Jiménez J, Toledo-Hernández VH, Cantú-Ayala CM.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Lista anotada preliminar de los Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) de Tamaulipas, México. Biodiversidad Tamaulipeca 2(2) 7'
    pages: 97–120
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gemminger M, von Harold E.
    year: 1872
    title: 'Catalogus coleopterorum hucusque descriptorum synonymicus et systematicus. Sumptu E. H. Gummi (G. Beck) Monachii; Paris. Tom. 9'
    pages: 2669–2988
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Giesbert EF, Hovore FT.
    year: 1976
    title: 'Records and descriptions of some southwestern Cerambycidae (Coeloptera). The Coleopterists Bulletin 30(1)'
    pages: 95–99
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gory HL.
    year: 1831
    title: 'Insectes. Cerambycidae. pl. 45–46. In: Guérin-Méneville FE. Iconographie du Règne Animal de Georges Cuvier ou représentation d’après nature de l’une des espèces le plus remarquables et souvent non figurées de chaque genre d’animaux. Baillère JB; Paris and London'
    pages: 104 pl
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gutiérrez N, Noguera FA.
    year: 2015
    title: 'New distributional records of Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) from Mexico. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 91(2)'
    pages: 135–147
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hovore FT.
    year: 1987
    title: 'A new genus and species of Cerambycidae from Costa Rica [Coleoptera]. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist, San Francisco 63(2)'
    pages: 151–154
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hovore FT.
    year: 2006
    title: 'The Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) of Guatemala. p. 363–378. In: Cano E (ed.). Biodiversidad de Guatemala. Universidad del Valle de Guatemala; Guatemala'
    pages: i–vi + 674 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hovore FT, Giesbert EF.
    year: 1976
    title: 'Notes on the ecology and distribution of western Cerambycidae (Coleoptera). The Coleopterists Bulletin 30(4)'
    pages: 349–360
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hovore FT, Penrose RL, Giesbert EF.
    year: 1978
    title: 'Notes on North American Cerambycidae (Coleoptera). Entomological News, Philadelphia 89(2/3)'
    pages: 95–100
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hovore FT, Penrose RL, Neck RW.
    year: 1987
    title: 'The Cerambycidae, or longhorned beetles, of southern Texas: a faunal survey (Coleoptera). Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences 44(13)'
    pages: 283–334
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hubweber L, Schmitt M.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Parameres–similarities and differences in Chrysomelidae and Cerambycidae (Coleoptera). Bonner zoologische Beiträge 54'
    pages: 253–259
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hubweber L, Schmitt M.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Differences in genitalia structure and function between subfamilies of longhorn beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae). Genetica 138'
    pages: 37–43
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: ICZN [International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature].
    year: 2012
    title: 'International Code of Zoological Nomenclature.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www.iczn.org/the-code/the-code-online/
    access: (Last accessed May 12, 2024.)

  - authors: Lacordaire JT.
    year: 1869
    title: 'Histoire naturelle des insectes. Genera des coléoptères ou exposé méthodique et critique de tous les genres proposés jusqu’ici dans cet ordre d’insectes. Famille des longicornes (suite). Librairie Encyclopédique de Roret; Paris 9(1)'
    pages: 1–409
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lameere AAL.
    year: 1883a
    title: 'Liste des Cérambycides décrits postérieurement au catalogue de Munich. Annales de la Société Entomologique de Belgique 26'
    pages: 1–78
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lameere AAL.
    year: 1883b
    title: 'Addenda et corrigenda à la liste des cérambycides décrits postérieurement au catalogue de Munich. Comptes-Rendus de la Société Entomologique de Belgique (1)27'
    pages: civ-cv
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: LeConte JL.
    year: 1854
    title: 'Descriptions of some new Coleoptera from Texas, chiefly collected by the Mexican Boundary Commission. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 6'
    pages: 439–448
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: LeConte JL.
    year: 1858
    title: 'Catalogue of Coleoptera of the regions adjacent to the boundary line between the United States and Mexico. Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia (2)4'
    pages: 9–42
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: LeConte JL.
    year: 1873
    title: 'Classification of the Coleoptera of North America. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. Part II. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 11(265)'
    pages: 279–348
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: LeConte JL, Horn GH.
    year: 1883
    title: 'Classification of the Coleoptera of North America. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 26(507)'
    pages: i–xxvii + 1–567
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Leng CW.
    year: 1886a
    title: 'Synopses of Cerambycidae. Entomologica Americana 2(3)'
    pages: 60–63
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Leng CW.
    year: 1886b
    title: 'Synopses of Cerambycidae. Entomologica Americana 2(4)'
    pages: 81–83
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lingafelter SW, Nearns EH, Tavakilian GL, Monné MÁ, Biondi M.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Longhorned woodboring beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae and Disteniidae) primary types of the Smithsonian Institution. Smithsonian Institution Scholarly Press; Washington DC'
    pages: v–xviii, 390 p., 187 fig
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linsley EG.
    year: 1935
    title: 'Studies in the Longicornia of Mexico (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae). Transactions of the American Entomological Society 61'
    pages: 67–102
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linsley EG.
    year: 1961
    title: 'Lycidlike Cerambycidae (Coleoptera). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 54(5)'
    pages: 628–635
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linsley EG.
    year: 1962
    title: 'The Cerambycidae of North America. Part III. Taxonomy and classification of the subfamily Cerambycinae, tribes Opsimini through Megaderini. Vol. 20. University of California Press; Berkeley and Los Angeles'
    pages: 188 p., 56 fig
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linsley EG, Chemsak JA.
    year: 1961
    title: 'A distributional and taxonomic study of the genus <i>Crossidius </i>(Coleoptera, Cerambycidae). Miscellaneous Publications of the Entomological Society of America 3(2)'
    pages: 25–64
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linsley EG, Chemsak JA.
    year: 1984
    title: 'The Cerambycidae of North America. Part VII., No. 1: Taxonomy and classification of the subfamily Lamiinae, tribes Parmenini through Acanthoderini. Vol. 102. University of California Press; Berkeley and Los Angeles'
    pages: 258 p., 57 fig
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linsley EG, Chemsak JA.
    year: 1997
    title: 'The Cerambycidae of North America, Part VIII: Bibliography, Index, and Host Plant Index. Vol. 117. University of California Press; Berkeley and Los Angeles'
    pages: i–ix + 1–534
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lophelia.
    year: 2024
    title: 'Lophelia.org, the Cold-water Coral, Deep-sea Coral and Deep-Water Coral Resource - What Is Lophelia?'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: http://www.lophelia.org/corals/what-is-lophelia
    access: (Last accessed May 11, 2024.)

  - authors: MacRae TC, Bezark LG, Swift IP.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Notes on distribution and host plants of Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) from southern Mexico. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 88(2)'
    pages: 173–187
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Marqua DG.
    year: 1976
    title: 'A new record of Purpuricene Cerambycid from America North of Mexico. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 52(1)'
    pages: 37
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Merriam-Webster.
    year: 2024
    title: '<i>Zalophus </i>Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/Zalophus
    access: (Last accessed June 1, 2024.)

  - authors: Monné MÁ.
    year: 1994
    title: 'Catalogue of the Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) of the western hemisphere. Part XI. Subfamily Cerambycinae: Tribes Torneutini, Trachyderini, Basipterini. Sociedade Brasileira de Entomologia, São Paulo XI'
    pages: 1–157
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Monné MÁ.
    year: 2001
    title: 'Catalogue of the neotropical Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) with known host plant - Part II : Subfamily Cerambycinae, tribes Graciliini to Trachyderini. Publicações Avulsas do Museu Nacional, Rio de Janeiro 90'
    pages: 1–119
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Monné MÁ.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Catalogue of the Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) of the Neotropical Region. Part III. Subfamilies Parandrinae, Prioninae, Anoplodermatinae, Aseminae, Spondylidinae, Lepturinae, Oxypeltinae, and addenda to the Cerambycinae and Lamiinae. Zootaxa 1212'
    pages: 1–244
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Monné MÁ, Giesbert EF.
    year: 1994
    title: 'Checklist of the Cerambycidae and Disteniidae (Coleoptera) of the Western Hemisphere. Wolfsgarden Books; Burbank, CA'
    pages: i–xiv + 1–410 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Monné MÁ, Hovore FT.
    year: 2006
    title: 'A Checklist of the Cerambycidae, or longhorned wood-boring beetles, of the Western Hemisphere. BioQuip Publications; Rancho Dominguez, CA'
    pages: 1–393
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Morales-Morales CJ, Aguilar-Astudillo E, Rosales-Esquinca MA, Quiroga-Madrigal RR, Alonso-Bran RA, Guttiérrez- Hernández RC.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Cerambícidos (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) asociados al piñón (<i>Jatropha curcas </i>L.), en cinco municipios de la Depresión Central de Chiapas, México. Biota Colombiana, Bogotá 13(1)'
    pages: 35–46
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Noguera FA, Chemsak JA.
    year: 1996
    title: 'Cerambycidae (Coleoptera). In: Biodiversidad, taxonomía y biogeografía de artrópodos de México: Hacia una Síntesis de su conocimiento. Universidad Nacional Autonoma de México 1996'
    pages: 381–409
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Noguera FA, Ortega-Huerta MA, Zaragoza-Caballero S, González-Soriano E, Ramírez-García E.
    year: 2009
    title: 'A faunal study of Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) from one region with tropical dry forest in Mexico: Sierra de San Javier, Sonora. The Pan- Pacific Entomologist 85(2)'
    pages: 70–90
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Noguera FA, Zaragoza-Caballero S, Chemsak JA, Rodríguez-Palafox A, Ramírez-García E, González-Soriano E, Ayala R.
    year: 2002
    title: 'Diversity of the family Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) of the tropical dry forest of Mexico, I. Sierra de Huautla, Morelos. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 95(5)'
    pages: 617–627
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ordóñez Reséndiz MM, Martínez-Ramos Y.
    year: 2017
    title: 'Diversidad y fenología de Cerambycidae (Insecta, Coleoptera) en bosques de la Sierra de Taxco, México. Entomología Mexicana 4'
    pages: 826–831
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pace R.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Aleocharinae from Sabah (Borneo) collected by Guillaume de Rougemont (Coleoptera, Staphylinidae). Linzer biologische Beiträge 46(1)'
    pages: 727–794
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Santos-Silva A, Botero JP, Le Tirant S.
    year: 2018
    title: 'A new genus, four new species and taxonomic and geographic notes in Mexican Cerambycidae. Zootaxa 4420(2)'
    pages: 189–210
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Snodgrass RE.
    year: 1947
    title: 'The insect cranium and the “epicranial suture.” Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. 107(7)'
    pages: 52 p. + 15 figs
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Swift IP, Bezark LG, Nearns EH, Solís Á, Hovore FT.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Checklist of the Cerambycidae (Coleoptera) of Costa Rica. Insecta Mundi 0131'
    pages: 1–68
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Terrón SR.
    year: 1992
    title: 'Fauna de coleópteros Cerambycidae de la Reserva de la Biosfera «La Michilia» Durango, México. Folia Entomologica Mexicana 81 [1991]'
    pages: 285–314
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Thomson J.
    year: 1864
    title: 'Systema Cerambycidarum ou exposé de tous les genres compris dans la famille des Cérambycides et familles limitrophes. Mémoires de la Société Royale des Sciences de Liège 19'
    pages: 1–540
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Thomson J.
    year: 1878
    title: 'Typi cerambycidarum musei Thomsoniani. E. Deyrolle; Paris. 21 p. Toledo-Hernández VH, 2005. New distributional records for Mexican Cerambycidae (Coleoptera). The Coleopterists Bulletin 59(4)'
    pages: 415–422
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Toledo-Hernández VH, Noguera FA, Chemsak JA, Hovore FT, Giesbert EF.
    year: 2002
    title: 'The Cerambycid Fauna of the Tropical Dry Forest of “El Aguacero,” Chiapas, México (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae). The Coleopterists Bulletin 56(4)'
    pages: 515–532
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Torre-Bueno JR.
    year: 1989
    title: 'The Torre-Bueno glossary of entomology. The New York Entomological Society; New York, NY'
    pages: xvii + 840 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Turnbow RHJ, Cave RD, Thomas MC.
    year: 2003
    title: 'A list of the Cerambycidae of Honduras, with additions of previously unrecorded species. Ceiba 44(1)'
    pages: 1–43
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Verkerk P.
    year: 2024
    title: 'Eulexis-web - Lemmatiser and Dictionaries for Ancient Greek Texts (Bailly, Liddell–Scott–Jones, Pape).'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://outils.biblissima.fr/en/eulexis-web/index.php
    access: (Last accessed May 12, 2024.)

  - authors: Vogt GB.
    year: 1949
    title: 'Notes on Cerambycidae from the Lower Rio Grande Valley, Texas (Coleoptera). The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 25(4)'
    pages: 175–184
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Welter-Schultes F.
    year: 2012
    title: 'AnimalBase.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: http://www.animalbase.org
    access: (Last accessed June 13, 2024.)

  - authors: White A.
    year: 1853
    title: 'Longicornia I. Catalogue of the coleopterous insects in the collection of the British Museum; London 7'
    pages: 1–174
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wiktionary.
    year: 2024
    title: 'Caerulescens - Wiktionary, the Free Dictionary'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/caerulescens
    access: (Last accessed May 12, 2024.)

  - authors: WordSense.
    year: 2024
    title: 'Prolata (Latin)/ Meaning, Definition – WordSense.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www.wordsense.eu/prolata/
    access: (Last accessed May 14, 2024.)

  - authors: Zajciw D.
    year: 1960
    title: 'Novos Longicórneos Neotrópicos (Col., Cerambycidae) – II. Revista Brasileira de Entomologia 9'
    pages: 129–149
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Zajciw D.
    year: 1969
    title: 'Estudos sôbre o gênero <i>Cyphosterna </i>Chevr., 1862 e gêneros afíns, com descrição de um gênero nôvo (Coleoptera, Cerambycidae, Purpuricenini). Atas da Sociedade de Biologia, Rio de Janeiro 12(5–6)'
    pages: 225–228
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

abstract: 'The genera <i>Lophalia </i>Casey, 1912, <i>Mannophorus </i>LeConte, 1854 and <i>Ischnocnemis </i>Thomas, 1864 (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae: Cerambycinae: Trachyderini) are recharacterized by providing additional mor¬phological features to enhance the delineation of these genera. Two species <i>Lophalia cribricollis </i>Bates, 1892 and <i>Ischnocnemis luteicollis </i>(Bates, 1885) are transferred to a new genus <i>Lophaliamorpha </i>Eya with <i>Lophalia¬morpha luteicollis </i>(Bates) new combination as the type species. <i>Ischnocnemis skillmani </i>Chemsak and Hovore, 2010 is transferred to a new genus <i>Paramannophorus </i>Eya with <i>Paramannophorus skillmani </i>(Chemsak and Hovore) new combination as the type species. A new genus <i>Microteroschema </i>is created to accommodate two additional species from Mexico: <i>Microteroschema parvum </i>Eya new species (Oaxaca and Chiapas) and <i>Mi¬croteroschema pseudolaetum </i>Eya new species (Chiapas) with <i>M. parvum </i>as the type species. Additional new species from Mexico include: <i>Lophalia nigricollis </i>Eya new species (Morelos and Michoacán), <i>Mannophorus tricostatus </i>Eya new species (Chiapas), <i>Ischnocnemis edmundi </i>Eya new species (Chiapas), and <i>Ischnocnemis brevis </i>Eya new species (Michoacán and Guerrero). Other new combinations include: three species previ¬ously included in <i>Neotaranomis </i>Chemsak and Linsley, 1982 (<i>N. australis</i>, Chemsak and Linsley, 1982, <i>N. sinaloae </i>Chemsak and Linsley, 1982 and <i>N. atropurpurea </i>Chemsak and Noguera, 2001) are transferred to <i>Cy¬phosterna </i>Chevrolat, 1862; <i>Lophalia auricomis </i>Chemsak and Linsley, 1979 is transferred to <i>Zalophia </i>Casey, 1912; and two species, <i>Chemsakiella virgulata </i>(Chemsak, 1987) and <i>Ischnocnemis minor </i>Bates, 1880 are transferred to <i>Mannophorus </i>LeConte, 1854. Furthermore, <i>Ischnocnemis virescens </i>Eya, 2010 is also transferred to <i>Mannophorus </i>as a new combination and new subspecies of <i>Mannophorus virgulata </i>(Chemsak). New syn¬onymies include two species previously in <i>Ischnocnemis</i>, i.e., <i>I. cribellatus </i>(Bates, 1892), and <i>I. cyaneus </i>Bates, 1892 synonymized with <i>Mannophorus laetus </i>LeConte, 1854 and <i>I. caerulescens </i>Bates, 1885, respectively. A key to <i>Sphaenothecus-</i>like trachyderines, which includes all the above-mentioned genera, and keys to species of <i>Lophalia</i>, <i>Lophaliamorpha</i>, <i>Mannophorus</i>, <i>Ischnocnemis</i>, <i>Microteroschema</i>, and <i>Cyphosterna </i>are provided. Illustrations of the available species in color are included.'

---