---
title: 'The distribution of 28 species of Scarabaeoidea (Coleoptera) in Colorado, with new state records'
date: '2025-11-28'
doi: 'https://doi.org/10.64338/im.1161.qjmfc'
journal: Insecta Mundi
issue: '1161'
pagination: '1-71'
zoobank: 'urn:lsid:zoobank.org:pub:63CDC21A-17C6-4511-8ACF-5693A1DB38C5'
authors:  
  - first_name: 'Frank-Thorsten'
    last_name: 'Krell'
    affiliation: 'C.P. Gillette Museum of Arthropod Diversity, Department of Agricultural Biology, Colorado State University, 1177H Campus Delivery, Fort Collins, CO 80523, USA'
    email: 'frank.krell@colostate.edu'
    orcid: 'https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6065-0812'

download: 'https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MehvutyOy2NgkJsV96gMKXoheHXc1gVV'

revised: ''

supplementary: ''

keywords: 
  - Scarab beetles
  - Japanese beetle
  - Scarabaeidae
  - Geotrupidae
  - Scarabaeinae
  - Aphodiinae
  - Melolonthinae
  - Rutelinae
  - Dynastinae
  - invasives
  - phenology
  - chemical ecology

categories:
  - Coleoptera
  - Scarabaeidae
  - Geotrupidae
  - Scarabaeinae
  - Aphodiinae
  - Melolonthinae
  - Rutelinae
  - Dynastinae

references:
  - authors: Allsopp PG.
    year: 1996
    title: 'Japanese beetle, <i>Popillia japonica </i>Newman (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae): rate of movement and potential distribution of an immigrant species. The Coleopterists Bulletin 50'
    pages: 81–95
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Anonymous.
    year: 1997
    title: 'Japanese Beetle Survey. Colorado State University.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/Entomology/caps/JB.htm
    access: (Last accessed 03 September 2025.)

  - authors: Anonymous (Cranshaw W, Leatherman D, Kondratieff B, Opler P, Sclar C, Jacobi W, Mannix L, Franc G, Kearns H, Skoglund L, Harrison S, McCaig V, Pottorff L, Small M, Rodriguez C, Weitzel D).
    year: 2000
    title: 'Insects and diseases of woody plants of the Central Rockies. Colorado State University, Cooperative Extension, Bulletin 506A'
    pages:  i–xvi, 1–283.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Anonymous.
    year: 2009a
    title: 'Japanese beetles discovered in the Village. The Village Crier, Cherry Hills Village 51(3)'
    pages: 8
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Anonymous.
    year: 2009b
    title: 'Agency declares victory over Japanese Beetle.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: The Daily Sentinel, Grand Junction, 7 Oct.
    year: 2009
    title: 'Available at https://www.gjsentinel.com/news/western_colorado/agency-declares-victory-over-japanese- beetle/article_aee83938-cde5-5847-b69d-d4c447978c08.html (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www.gjsentinel.com/news/western_colorado/agency-declares-victory-over-japanese-
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: Anonymous.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Colorado State University, Extension TriRiver Area. Western Colorado Insects. Eradicating Japanese Beetles.'
    pages: 80
    doi: 
    url: https://web.archive.org/web/20170808123741/http://wci.colostate.edu:80/
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025)

  - authors: Anonymous.
    year: 2023
    title: '<i>Popillia japonica </i>(Japanese Beetle) Pest Alert. A coordinated response to eradicate <i>Popillia japonica </i>from Metro Vancouver.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/industry/agricultureseafood/
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025)

  - authors: Bates HW.
    year: 1888
    title: 'Biologia Centrali-Americana. Insecta. Coleoptera. Vol. II. Part 2. Pectinicornia and Lamellicornia. Taylor & Francis; London. [p. 161–192 published Jan. 1888; p. 305–320 published Oct. 1888; p. 321–336 published Dec. 1888]'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bitar A, Morón MÁ.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Revision y analisis filogenetico del genero <i>Xyloryctes </i>(Coleoptera: Melolonthidae: Dynastinae: Oryctini). Revista Mexicana de Biodiversidad 85'
    pages: 753–796
    doi: https://doi.org/10.7550/rmb.42654
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Blume RR, Aga A.
    year: 1978
    title: 'Observations on ecological and phylogenetic relationships of <i>Phanaeus difformis </i>LeConte and <i>Phanaeus vindex </i>MacLeay (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) in North America. Southwestern Entomologist 3'
    pages: 113–119
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bossenbroek JM.
    year: 2004
    title: 'Spatial structure and scaling of beetle, bird and plant communities in North American grasslands. PhD Thesis, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO'
    pages: vii, 128 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brahm NJ.
    year: 1790
    title: 'Insektenkalender fur Sammler und Oekonomen. Erster Theil. Kurfurstl. Privileg. Universitatsbuchhandlung; Mainz, Germany'
    pages: xcii+ 248 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brandenburg RL, Villani MG.
    year: 1995
    title: 'Handbook of Turfgrass Insect Pests. Entomological Society of America; Lanham, MD'
    pages: vii + 140 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bright DE, Kondratieff BC.
    year: 2023
    title: 'A Distributional Checklist of the Beetles (Coleoptera) of Colorado. Insects of Western North America 14. C. P. Gillette Museum of Arthropod Diversity, Department of Agricultural Biology, Colorado State University; Fort Collins, CO'
    pages: iii + 367 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brown WJ.
    year: 1940
    title: 'Notes on the American distribution of some species of Coleoptera common to the European and North American continents. The Canadian Entomologist 72'
    pages: 65–78
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bulmer D.
    year: 2007
    title: '2007 Japanese Beetle Eradication Program Palisade, CO. Summary and Final Report. 21 p.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: http://b3.net.nz/gerda/refs/87.pdf
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: Burmeister H.
    year: 1847
    title: 'Handbuch der Entomologie. Funfter Band. Besondere Entomologie. Fortsetzung. Coleoptera Lamellicornia Xylophila et Pectinicornia. Enslin; Berlin'
    pages: VIII, 584 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Byk A, Rutkiewicz A.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Struktura zgrupowań koprofagiczyuch poświętnikow (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea) i ich dynamika sezonowa w uprawach I młodnikach sosnowych w Lasach Człuchowskich (połnocnozachodnia Polska). Sylwan 164'
    pages: 482–496
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cartwright OL.
    year: 1944
    title: 'New <i>Aphodius </i>from Texas gopher burrows. Entomological News 55'
    pages: 129–135
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cartwright OL.
    year: 1948
    title: 'The American species of <i>Pleurophorus </i>(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Transactions of the American Entomological Society 74'
    pages: 131–145
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cartwright OL.
    year: 1974
    title: '<i>Ataenius</i>, <i>Aphotaenius</i>, and <i>Pseudataenius </i>of the United States and Canada (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae). Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 154'
    pages: i–iv, 1–106
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Casey TL.
    year: 1909
    title: 'Studies in the Caraboidea and Lamellicornia. The Canadian Entomologist 41'
    pages: 253–284
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Casey TL.
    year: 1915
    title: 'Memoirs on the Coleoptera VI. New Era Printing Company; Lancaster, PA'
    pages: 460 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cockerell TDA.
    year: 1890
    title: 'Notes on the insect fauna of high altitudes in Custer County, Colorado. The Canadian Entomologist 22'
    pages: 37–39
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cockerell TDA.
    year: 1893
    title: 'The entomology of the mid-alpine zone of Custer County, Colorado. Transactions of the American Entomological Society 20'
    pages: 305–370
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cole CJ.
    year: 1962
    title: 'Notes on the distribution and food habits of <i>Bufo alvarius </i>at the eastern edge of its range. Herpetologica 18'
    pages: 172–175
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cranshaw W.
    year: 2007
    title: 'Japanese Beetle. Colorado State University Extension, Insect Series, Home & Garden 5.601'
    pages: 1–4
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: De Geer C.
    year: 1774
    title: 'Memoires pour Servir l′Histoire des Insectes. 4. Hesselberg; Stockholm, Sweden'
    pages: Xii + 456 p. +19 pl.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Dellacasa G, Bordat P, Dellacasa M.
    year: 2001
    title: 'A revisional essay of world genus-group taxa of Aphodiinae (Coleoptera Aphodiidae). Memorie della Societa Entomologica Italiana 79'
    pages: 1–482
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Dellacasa M, Dellacasa G.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Tribe Aphodiini Leach, 1815. p. 105–143. In: Lobl I, Smetana A. (eds.). Catalogue of Palaearctic Coleoptera. Volume 3. Scarabaeoidea – Scirtoidea – Dascilloidea – Buprestoidea – Byrrhoidea. Apollo Books; Stenstrup, Denmark'
    pages: 690 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Dickerson EL, Weiss HB.
    year: 1918
    title: '<i>Popilia </i>[sic] <i>japonica </i>Newm., a recently introduced Japanese pest. The Canadian Entomologist 50'
    pages: 217–221
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Edmonds WD.
    year: 1994
    title: 'Revision of <i>Phanaeus </i>Macleay, a New World genus of scarabaeine dung beetles (Coleop tera: Scarabaeidae, Scarabaeinae). Contributions in Science 443'
    pages: 1–105
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Edmonds WD.
    year: 2022
    title: 'Taxonomic review of the North American dung beetle genus <i>Boreocanthon </i>Halffter, 1958 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Scarabaeinae: Deltochilini). Insecta Mundi 952'
    pages: 1–65
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fabricius IC.
    year: 1775
    title: 'Systema Entomologiae, Sistens Insectorum Classes, Ordines, Genera, Species, a Directis Synonymis, Locis, Descriptionibus, Observationibus. Kortii; Flensburg and Leipzig, Germany'
    pages: 832 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fabricius IC.
    year: 1787
    title: 'Mantissa Insectorum Sistens eorum Species nuper Detectas Adiectis Characteribus Genericis, Differentiis Specificis, Emendationibus, Observationibus. Tom. I. Proft; Copenhagen, Denmark'
    pages: xvi + 348 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fagerlund R.
    year: 2000
    title: 'Preliminary checklist of the beetles (Coleoptera) of New Mexico with notes on their distributions. New Mexico Naturalist’s Notes 2'
    pages: 1–66
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fernald CH.
    year: 1878
    title: '[without title]. Bulletin of the Brooklyn Entomological Society 1 (3)'
    pages: 23
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Floate KD, Gill BD.
    year: 1998
    title: 'Seasonal activity of dung beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) associated with cattle dung in southern Alberta and their geographic distribution in Canada. The Canadian Entomologist 130'
    pages: 131–151
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Forbes SA.
    year: 1916
    title: 'A general survey of the May-beetles (<i>Phyllophaga</i>) of Illinois. University of Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin 186'
    pages: 215–257
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fox H.
    year: 1939
    title: 'The probable future distribution of the Japanese beetle in North America. Journal of the New York Entomological Society 47'
    pages: 105–123
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Génier F, Krell F-T.
    year: 2017
    title: 'Case 3722 – <i>Scarabaeus gazella </i>Fabricius, 1787 (currently <i>Digitonthophagus gazella </i>or <i>Onthophagus gazella</i>; Insecta, Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae): proposed conservation of usage of the specific name by designation of a neotype. Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature 74'
    pages: 78–87
    doi: https://doi.org/10.21805/bzn.v74.a021
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Germar EF.
    year: 1824
    title: 'Coleopterorum Species Novae aut Minus Cognitae, Descriptionibus Illustratae. Hendelii et Filii; Halle'
    pages: xxiv + 624 p. + 2 pl.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gigliotti MS, Hoback WW, Talley JL.
    year: 2019
    title: 'New state and county records of dung beetles of Oklahoma. Southwestern Entomologist 44'
    pages: 465–477
    doi: https://doi.org/10.3958/059.044.0212
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: González-Megías A, Sánchez-Piñero F.
    year: 2003
    title: 'Effects of brood parasitism on host reproductive success: evidence from larval interactions among dung beetles. Oecologia 134'
    pages: 195–202
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gordon RD, Skelley PE.
    year: 2007
    title: 'A Monograph of the Aphodiini inhabiting the United States and Canada (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae). American Entomological Institute; Gainesville, FL'
    pages: 580 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Haldeman SS.
    year: 1848
    title: 'Descriptions of North American Coleoptera, chiefly in the Cabinet of J. L. Le Conte, M.D., with references to described species. Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia (2)1'
    pages: 95-110
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Haldeman SS.
    year: 1852
    title: 'Insects. p. 366–378, pl. 9–10. In: Stansbury H. Exploration and survey of the valley of the Great Salt Lake of Utah, including a reconnaissance of a new route through the Rocky Mountains. Lippincott, Grambo & Co.; Philadelphia, PA'
    pages: 487 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Haldeman SS.
    year: 1853
    title: 'Descriptions of some new species of Insects, with observations on described species. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 6'
    pages: 361–365
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Halffter G.
    year: 1958
    title: 'Dos nuevos generos de Canthonini. Ciencia 17'
    pages: 207–212
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hardy AR.
    year: 1971
    title: 'The North American Areodina with a description of a new genus from California (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Pan-Pacific Entomologist 47'
    pages: 235–242
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hardy A.
    year: 1991
    title: 'A catalog of the Coleoptera of America north of Mexico, Family: Scarabaeidae, subfamilies: Rutelinae and Dynastinae. United States Department of Agriculture, Agriculture Handbook 529-34b'
    pages: i–xi, 1–57.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hawks DC.
    year: 2001
    title: 'Taxonomic and nomenclatural changes in <i>Chrysina </i>and synonymic checklist of species. Occasional Papers of the Consortium Coleopterorum 4(1)'
    pages: 1–8
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hawley IM, Dobbins TN.
    year: 1945
    title: 'The distribution and abundance of the Japanese beetle from 1935 through 1943, with a discussion of some of the known factors that influence its behavior. Journal of the New York Entomological Society 53'
    pages: 1–20
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Helgesen RG, Post RL.
    year: 1967
    title: 'Saprophagous Scarabaeidae (Coleoptera) of North Dakota. North Dakota Insects Publication 7'
    pages: 1–60
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Henney HJ.
    year: 1942
    title: 'Entomology. Annual Report, Colorado Agricultural Experiment Station 55'
    pages: 25–27
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Henshaw S.
    year: 1887
    title: 'Some European beetles in America. The Canadian Entomologist 19'
    pages: 159–160
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hernandez E.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Predatory wasps take aim at beetle mania. Colorado researchers receive help to fight spread of Japanese beetles. The Denver Post, Aug. 29, 2018'
    pages: 1
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hodgson E.
    year: 2007
    title: 'Japanese beetle: not just another pretty bug. Utah Pest News 1'
    pages: 1–2
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hodgson E, Alston D, Stanley CA.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Japanese Beetle (<i>Popillia japonica</i>). Utah Pests Fact Sheet ENT-100- 06PR'
    pages: 1–3
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hoebeke ER, Beucke K.
    year: 1997
    title: 'Adventive <i>Onthophagus </i>(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) in North America: geographic ranges, diagnoses, and new distributional records. Entomological News 108'
    pages: 345–362
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hoffman AL.
    year: 2000
    title: 'A multi-scale assessment of beetle diversity and landscape properties on the shortgrass steppe of Colorado, U.S.A. MSc Thesis, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado.'
    pages: 136 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hoffmann CH.
    year: 1939
    title: 'The biology and taxonomy of the Nearctic species of <i>Osmoderma </i>(Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 32'
    pages: 510–525
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hope FW.
    year: 1837
    title: 'The Coleopterist’s Manual, containing the Lamellicorn Insects of Linneus and Fabricius. Bohn; London'
    pages: 121 p., 3 pl.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Horn GH.
    year: 1880
    title: 'Synopsis of the Euphoriae of the United States. Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society 18'
    pages: 397–408
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Horn GH.
    year: 1887a
    title: 'A monograph of the Aphodiini inhabiting the United States. Transactions of the American Entomological Society 14'
    pages: 1–110
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Horn GH.
    year: 1887b
    title: 'Revision of the species of <i>Lachnosterna </i>of America North of Mexico. Transactions of the American Entomological Society 14'
    pages: 209–296
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kahle I, Friese G, Gaedike R.
    year: 1990
    title: 'Collectiones Entomologicae. Ein Kompendium uber den Verbleib Entomologischer Sammlungen der Welt bis 1960. Teil IIL L bis Z. Akademie der Landwirtschaftswissenschaften der Deutschen Demokratischen Republik; Berlin'
    pages: p. 221–573.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Howard LO.
    year: 1919
    title: 'Report of the entomologist. Annual Reports of the Department of Agriculture 1918'
    pages: 233–256
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Howard LO, Barber HS, Busck A.
    year: 1928
    title: 'Dr. E. A. Schwarz. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 30'
    pages: 154–183
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Howden HF.
    year: 1955
    title: 'Biology and taxonomy of North American beetles of the subfamily Geotrupinae with revisions of the genera <i>Bolbocerosoma</i>, <i>Eucanthus</i>, <i>Geotrupes </i>and <i>Peltotrupes </i>(Scarabaeidae). Proceedings of the United States National Museum 104'
    pages: 151–319
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Howden HF.
    year: 1968
    title: 'A review of the Trichiinae of North and Central America (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Memoirs of the Entomological Society of Canada 54'
    pages: 1–77
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Howden HF.
    year: 1984
    title: 'A catalog of the Coleoptera of America north of Mexico, Family: Scarabaeidae, subfamily: Geotrupinae. United States Department of Agriculture, Agriculture Handbook 529-34a'
    pages: i–viii, 1–17.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hunter JS, Fincher GT.
    year: 1985
    title: 'Five new state records for the Afro-Asian dung beetle <i>Onthophagus gazella </i>(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Journal of Entomological Science 20'
    pages: 24–25
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sheppard DC, Fincher GT.
    year: 1987
    title: 'New distribution records for <i>Aphodius erraticus </i>(L.). Journal of Agricultural Entomology 4'
    pages: 90–91
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Illiger JKW.
    year: 1798
    title: 'Verzeichniss der Kafer Preussens. Entworfen von Johann Gottlieb Kugelann, Apotheker in Osterode. Gebauer; Halle'
    pages: XLII, 512 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jackson TA, Klein MG.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Scarabs as pests: a continuing problem. Coleopterists Society Monographs 5'
    pages: 102–119
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kaufman P.
    year: 2009
    title: 'Biological observations and a new state record of <i>Paracotalpa granicollis </i>Haldeman (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae) in New Mexico. The Coleopterists Bulletin 63'
    pages: 513–515
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kerzicnik L.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Japanese Beetle. Montana State University Extension, MontGuide MT202404AR'
    pages: 1–8
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kessler H, Balsbaugh EU.
    year: 1972
    title: 'Succession of adult Coleoptera in bovine manure in east central South Dakota. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 65'
    pages: 1333–1336
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kessler H, Balsbaugh EU, McDaniel B.
    year: 1974
    title: 'Faunistic comparison of adult Coleoptera recovered from cattle and sheep manure in east-central South Dakota. Entomological News 85'
    pages: 67–71
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kirby W, Spence W.
    year: 1828
    title: 'An introduction to entomology: or elements of the natural history of insects: with plates. Vol. IV. Fifth Edition. Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, and Green; London, UK'
    pages: iv, 683 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kistner-Thomas EJ.
    year: 2019
    title: 'The potential global distribution and voltinism of the Japanese beetle (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) under current and future climates. Journal of Insect Science 9(2)'
    pages: 16
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/jisesa/iez023
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Klimaszewski J, Langor DW, Smith ABT, Hoebeke ER, Davies A, Pelletier G, Douglas HB, Webster RP, Bourdon C, Boroviec L, Scudder GGE.
    year: 2017
    title: 'Synopsis of adventive species of Coleoptera (Insecta) recorded from Canada. Part 4: Scarabaeoidea, Scirtoidea, Buprestoidea, Byrrhoidea, Elateroidea, Derodontoidea, Bostrichoidea, and Cleroidea. Pensoft; Sofia and Moscow'
    pages: 215 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Krell F-T.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Catalogue of Colorado scarab and stag beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea), based on literature records. Denver Museum of Nature & Science Technical Report 2010-4'
    pages: 1–84
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Krell F-T.
    year: 2011
    title: '<i>Pleurophorus caesus </i>new to New Mexico (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae). Entomological News 122'
    pages: 491–492
    doi: https://doi.org/10.3157/021.122.0512
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Krell F[-T].
    year: 2012
    title: 'Invaders Everywhere. Catalyst, Denver Museum of Nature & Science Magazine June/July 2012'
    pages: 12
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Krell F-T.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Japanese beetles make Colorado home. YourHub, Adams County (Denver Post), July 12, 2018'
    pages: 6
    doi: 
    url: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/326366522_Japanese_beetles_make_Colorado_home
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: Krell F-T.
    year: 2024
    title: 'The European dung beetle <i>Aphodius (Melinopterus) prodromus </i>(Brahm) and related native species in the Dakotas (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae). Entomological News 131'
    pages: 64–74
    doi: https://doi.org/10.3157/021.131.0202
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Krell F-T, Angus R.
    year: 2014
    title: 'The identity of <i>Aphodius nodifrons </i>Randall, 1838 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae) from Maine, United States of America, with designation of the lectotype and handwriting examples. Zootaxa 3827'
    pages: 273–281
    doi: 
    url: http://dx.doi.org/10.11646/zootaxa.3827.2.8
    access: 

  - authors: Kumar R, Lavigne RJ, Lloyd JE, Pfadt RE.
    year: 1976
    title: 'Insects of the Central Plains Experiment Range, Pawnee National Grassland. Agricultural Experiment Station, University of Wyoming, Laramie, Science Monographs 32'
    pages: i–iv, 1–74.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Leach BR.
    year: 1921
    title: 'The Japanese beetle in relation to golf grounds. Bulletin of the Green Section of the U. S. Golf Association 1'
    pages: 210–211
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Le Conte JL.
    year: 1847
    title: 'Fragmenta entomologica. Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia (2) 1'
    pages: 71–93
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Le Conte JL.
    year: 1855
    title: 'Descriptions of new Coleoptera collected by Thos. H. Webb, M. D., in the years 1850–51 and 52, while Secretary of the U. S. and Mexican Boundary Commission. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 6'
    pages: 220–225
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Le Conte JL.
    year: 1856
    title: 'Notice of three genera of Scarabaeidae found in the United States. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 8'
    pages: 19–25
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Leconte JT [sic].
    year: 1857
    title: 'Report upon insects collected on the Survey. p. 1–72, pl. 1–2. In: Suckley G, Cooper JG. The Natural History of Washington Territory and Oregon, with much relating to Minnesota, Nebraska, Kansas, Utah, and California [...]. Bailliere Brothers; New York, NY'
    pages: xvii, 72, 399 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: LeConte JL.
    year: 1858
    title: 'Descriptions of new species of Coleoptera, chiefly collected by the United States and Mexican Boundary Commission, under Major W. H. Emory, U. S. A. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 10'
    pages: 59–89
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Leconte JL.
    year: 1866
    title: 'Additions to the Coleopterous Fauna of the United States. No. 1. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 1866'
    pages: 361–394
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linnaeus C.
    year: 1758
    title: 'Systema Naturae per Regna Tria Naturae, secundum Classes, Ordines, Genera, Species, cum Characteribus, Differentiis, Synonymis, Locis. Tomus I. Editio Decima, Reformata. Laurentii Salvii; Stockholm, Sweden'
    pages: 823 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Loughrin JH, Potter DA, Hamilton-Kemp TR.
    year: 1998
    title: 'Attraction of Japanese beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) to host plant volatiles in field trapping experiments. Environmental Entomology 27'
    pages: 395–400
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/ee/27.2.395
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Matthews EG.
    year: 1961
    title: 'A revision of the genus <i>Copris </i>Muller of the Western Hemisphere (Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae). Entomologica Americana 41'
    pages: 1–139
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Melsheimer FE.
    year: 1844
    title: 'Descriptions of new species of Coleoptera of the United States. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 2'
    pages: 133–160
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Melsheimer FV.
    year: 1806
    title: 'A Catalogue of Insects of Pennsylvania. Part First. Lepper; Hannover'
    pages: VI, 60 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McMulkin L.
    year: 2010a
    title: 'Japanese beetles. From the Ground Up 1(7)'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McMulkin L.
    year: 2010b
    title: 'Japanese beetle munching their way through Pueblo. The Pueblo Chieftain, 8 August 2010.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www.chieftain.com/story/lifestyle/2010/08/08/japanese-beetles-munching-theirway/
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: MacRae TC, Penn SR.
    year: 2001
    title: 'Additional records of adventive <i>Onthophagus </i>Latreille (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) in North America. The Coleopterists Bulletin 55'
    pages: 49–50
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Miraldo A, Krell F-T, Smalén M, Angus RB, Roslin T.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Making the cryptic visible - resolving the species complex of <i>Aphodius fimetarius </i>(Linnaeus, 1758) and <i>Aphodius pedellus </i>(de Geer, 1774) (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) by three complementary methods. Systematic Entomology 39'
    pages: 531
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/syen.12079
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Montes de Oca E, Halffter G.
    year: 1998
    title: 'Invasion of Mexico by two dung beetles previously introduced into the United States. Studies on Neotropical Fauna and Environment 33'
    pages: 37–45
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1076/snfe.33.1.37.2174
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mulsant E.
    year: 1842
    title: 'Histoire Naturelle des Coleopteres de France. Lamellicornes. Maison; Paris'
    pages: viii, 623 p., 3 pl.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Newman [E].
    year: 1838
    title: 'New species of <i>Popillia</i>. Magazine of Natural History and Journal of Zoology, Botany, Mineralogy, Geology and Meteorology 2'
    pages: 336–338
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: NPWRC Northern Prairie Wildlife Research Center, United States Geological Survey.
    year: 1994
    title: 'Inventory of arthropod species recorded to date from Colorado National Monument, Colorado. Revised February 1994, based on specimens at UCM, CSU, and COLM.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://web.archive.org/web/20050316094028/
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: NPWRC Northern Prairie Wildlife Research Center, United States Geological Survey.
    year: 1995
    title: 'Inventory of arthropod species recorded to date from Dinosaur National Monument, Colorado/Utah. Revised February 1995, based primarily on specimens at UCM, CSU, and DINO.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://web.archive.org/
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: NPWRC Northern Prairie Wildlife Research Center, United States Geological Survey.
    year: 1999
    title: 'Inventory of arthropod species recorded to date from Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado. Revised October 17, 1999.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://web.archive.org/web/20050525233758/http://npwrc.usgs.gov/resource/insects/insect/
    access: (Last accessed 29 June 2025.)

  - authors: Dinerstein E, Wikramanayake ED, Burgess ND, Powell GVN, Underwood EC, D′Amico JA, Itoua I, Strand HE, Morrison JC, Loucks CJ, Allnutt TF, Ricketts TH, Kura Y, Lamoreux JF, Wettengel WW, Hedao P, Kassem KR.
    year: 2001
    title: 'Terrestrial ecoregions of the world: a new map of life on Earth. Bioscience 51'
    pages: 933–938
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1641/0006-3568(2001)051[0933:TEOTWA]2.0.
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: CO;2 Orozco J.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Monographic revision of the American genus <i>Euphoria </i>Burmeister, 1842 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Cetoniinae). Coleopterists Society Monograph 11'
    pages: 1–182
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Osborn J.
    year: 1937
    title: 'Fragments of Entomological History Including Some Personal Recollection of Men and Events. Author; Columbus, OH'
    pages: 394 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Owen WK.
    year: 2004
    title: 'Seasonality and effects on dung decomposition of <i>Aphodius </i>(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) in southeast Wyoming. MSc Thesis, University of Wyoming, Laramie, WY'
    pages: xv +152 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Panzerus (Panzer) GWF.
    year: 1794
    title: 'Faunae Insectorum Americes Borealis Prodromus. Felseckeri; Nuremberg'
    pages: 8 p., 1 pl.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Panzer GWF.
    year: 1796
    title: 'Fauna Insectorum Germanicae Initia oder Deutschlands Insecten. Heft 35. Felseneckersche Buchhandlung; Nuremberg'
    pages: 24 p., 24 pl.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ratcliffe BC.
    year: 1976
    title: 'A revision of the genus <i>Strategus </i>(Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae). Bulletin of the University of Nebraska State Museum 10'
    pages: 93–204
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ratcliffe BC.
    year: 1991
    title: 'The scarab beetles of Nebraska. Bulletin of the University of Nebraska State Museum 12'
    pages: 1–333
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ratcliffe BC.
    year: 2009
    title: '<i>Xyloryctes </i>Hope, 1837 (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Dynastinae: Oryctini) in the United States. Qui es et ubi fuisti et quo vadis? Insecta Mundi 100'
    pages: 1–11
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ratcliffe BC, Cave RD.
    year: 2017
    title: 'The dynastine scarab beetles of the United States and Canada (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Dynastinae). Bulletin of the University of Nebraska State Museum 30'
    pages: i–vi, 1–293.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ratcliffe BC, Paulsen MJ.
    year: 2008
    title: 'The Scarabaeoid beetles of Nebraska. Bulletin of the University of Nebraska State Museum 22'
    pages:  i–iv, 1–568.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ring J.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Cooperative Agricultural Pest Survey (CAPS) Annual Report Colorado 2014. Colorado Department of Agriculture. 42 p.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://spl.cde.state.co.us/artemis/agserials/ag855internet/ag8552014internet.pdf
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: Robinson M.
    year: 1948
    title: 'A review of the species of <i>Canthon </i>inhabiting the United States (Scarabaeidae: Coleoptera). Transactions of the American Entomological Society 74'
    pages: 83–100
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rößner E.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Die Hirschkafer und Blatthornkafer (Coleoptera: Scarabaeoidea) Ostdeutschlands. Verein der Freunde und Forderer des Naturkundemuseums Erfurt; Erfurt, Germany'
    pages: 505 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Romero-Alcaraz E, Ávila JM.
    year: 2000
    title: 'Effect of elevation and type of habitat on the abundance and diversity of scarabaeoid dung beetles (Scarabaeoidea) assemblages in a Mediterranean area from Southern Iberian Peninsula. Zoological Studies 39'
    pages: 351–359
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sánchez-Piñero F, Avila JM.
    year: 1991
    title: 'Analisis comparativa de los Scarabaeoidea (Coleoptera) coprofagos de las deyecciones de conejo [<i>Oryctolagus cuniculus </i>(L.)] y de otros mamiferos. Estudio preliminar. Eos 67'
    pages: 23–34
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sánchez-Piñero F, Avila JM.
    year: 2004
    title: 'Dung-insect community composition in arid zones of south-eastern Spain. Journal of Arid Environments 56'
    pages: 303–327
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-1963(03)00057-0
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: S0140-1963(03)00057-0 Saylor LW.
    year: 1940
    title: 'Synoptic revision of the beetle genera <i>Cotalpa </i>and <i>Paracotalpa </i>of the United States, with description of a new subgenus. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 42'
    pages: 190-200
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Saylor LW.
    year: 1945
    title: 'Synoptic revision of the United States scarab beetles of the subfamily Dynastinae, No. 1: Cyclocephalini. Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 35'
    pages: 378–386
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schönherr CJ.
    year: 1806
    title: 'Synonymia Insectorum, oder: Versuch einer Synonymie aller bisher bekannten Insecten; nach Fabricii Systema Eleutheratorum geordnet. 1: Eleutherata oder Kafer. Erster Theil. <i>Lethrus </i>--- <i>Scolytes</i>. Nordstrom; Stockholm'
    pages: XXII, 294 p., 3 pl.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schwarz [EA].
    year: 1908
    title: '[without title; … upon some introduced Coleoptera…]. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 9'
    pages: 114–115
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Shorthouse DP.
    year: 2010
    title: 'SimpleMappr'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: http://www.simplemappr.net
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: M, Freilich J, Tonka T.
    year: 2009
    title: 'Application of dung-baited pitfall trapping in monitoring study on diversity of coprophagous beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae, Geotrupidae, Hydrophilidae) in cattle pastures. Journal of Agrobiology 26'
    pages: 83–99
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: M, Freilich J, Tonka T.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Function of coprophagous beetles (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae, Geotrupidae, Hydrophilidae) in cattle pastures inferred from pitfall trapping data. Journal of Agrobiology 27'
    pages: 85–91
    doi: https://doi.org/10.2478/s10146-009-0011-2
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Snow FH.
    year: 1906
    title: 'Results of the entomological collecting expedition of the University of Kansas to Pima County, Arizona, in June and July, 1906. Transactions of the Kansas Academy of Science 20'
    pages: 140–164
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Strangi A, Paoli F, Nardi F, Shimizu K, Iovinella I, Bosio G, Roversi PF, Carapelli A, Marianelli L.
    year: 2024
    title: 'Tracing the dispersal route of the invasive Japanese beetle <i>Popillia japonica</i>. Journal of Pest Science 97'
    pages: 613–629
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10340-023-01653-1
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sturm J.
    year: 1843
    title: 'Catalog der Kafer-Sammlung. Author; Nuremberg'
    pages: XII, 386 p., 17 pl.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Tauzin P.
    year: 1994
    title: 'Le genre <i>Osmoderma </i>Le Peletier et Audinet-Serville 1828 (Coleopt., Cetoniidae, Trichiinae, Osmodermatini) (deuxieme partie). L’Entomologiste 50'
    pages: 217–242
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Thompson MY.
    year: 1998
    title: 'Japanese Beetle really in New Mexico. Southwest Yard & Garden, Issue August 24th, 1998 New Mexico State University, College of Agricultural, Consumer and Environmental Sciences.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://web.archive.org/web/20240707095333/http://aces.nmsu.edu/ces/yard/1998/082498.html
    access: (Last accessed 03 September 2025.)

  - authors: Tri River Area Extension Entomology & Agronomy.
    year: 2025
    title: 'Colorado State University Extension. Western Colorado Insects: Japanese Beetle in Mesa County.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://wci.extension.colostate.edu/japanese-beetle-in-mesa-county/
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: Utah Department of Agriculture and Food.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Japanese Beetle eradication. Utah Department of Agriculture and Food.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://ag.utah.gov/2020/03/16/japanese-beetle-eradication/
    access: (Last accessed 03 September 2025)

  - authors: Utah Department of Agriculture and Food.
    year: 2025
    title: 'Japanese Beetle eradication. Utah Department of Agriculture and Food.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://ag.utah.gov/jberadication/?fbclid=IwAR2AMD6dM3SgoLehbzBGeL9mjkkF
    access: (Last accessed 03 September 2025.)

  - authors: Verdú JR, Stebnicka ZT, Galante E.
    year: 2006
    title: 'A new Neotropical genus of the Eupariini-Psammodiini complex with comparative morphology of mouthparts structures and analysis of characters among related taxa (Coleop tera: Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae). Acta Zoologica Cracoviensia 49B'
    pages: 55–72
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Warner WB.
    year: 2011
    title: 'Review of the genus <i>Orizabus </i>Fairmaire in the United States of America (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae: Dynastinae). Insecta Mundi 174'
    pages: 1–42
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Watson K, Burfitt CE.
    year: 2017
    title: 'The Orem, Utah Japanese beetle eradication<i>. </i>Entomology 2017, November 5–8, Denver, Colorado: presentation 1561. https://esa.confex.com/esa/2017/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/123142 (Last accessed 28 August 2025.)'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://esa.confex.com/esa/2017/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/123142
    access: (Last accessed 28 August 2025.)

  - authors: West D.
    year: 2025
    title: 'Japanese beetles caught in Mesa County down significantly. The Daily Sentinel Grand Junction, Colorado, Jan. 23 and 24, 2025.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www.gjsentinel.com/news/western_colorado/japanesebeetles-beetles-caught-in-mesa-county-down-significantly/article_c12fc7e6-d918-11ef-aa57-3794ca590336.html
    access: (Last accessed 30 June 2025.)

  - authors: Whitehead PF.
    year: 2006
    title: '<i>Aphodius (A.) fimetarius </i>(L., 1758) and <i>Aphodius (A.) pedellus </i>(De Geer, 1774) (Col., Aphodiidae) are distinct species, with new evidence for their European distribution. Entomologist’s Monthly Magazine 142'
    pages: 85–86
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wickham HF.
    year: 1899
    title: 'Recollections of old collecting grounds. VII.—The vicinity of Colorado Springs. Entomological News 10'
    pages: 5–8
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wickham HF.
    year: 1902
    title: 'A catalogue of the Coleoptera of Colorado. Bulletin from the Laboratories of Natural History of the State University of Iowa 5'
    pages: 217–310
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wickham HF.
    year: 1905
    title: 'The North American species of <i>Cotalpa</i>. Journal of the New York Entomological Society 13'
    pages: 1–4
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wilson CJ.
    year: 2001
    title: '<i>Aphodius pedellus </i>(De Geer), a species distinct from <i>A. fimetarius </i>(Linnaeus) (Coleoptera: Aphodiidae). Tijdschrift voor Entomologie 144'
    pages: 137–143
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Young RM.
    year: 2002
    title: 'A new <i>Cotalpa </i>Burmeister taken on post oak in eastern Texas with notes and a key to species in the genus (Scarabaeidae: Rutelinae). The Coleopterists Bulletin 56'
    pages: 473–479
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1649/0010-065X(2002)056[0473:ANCBTO]2.0.CO;2
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: CO;2 Zhu G, Oeller LC, Wojahn R, Acosta C, Milnes JM, Crowder DW.
    year: 2023
    title: 'Potential distribution and spread of Japanese beetle in Washington State. Journal of Economic Entomology 116'
    pages: 1458–1463
    doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/jee/toad116
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Zunino M.
    year: 1981
    title: 'Insects of Saudi Arabia, Coleoptera: Fam. Scarabaeidae, Tribe Onthophagini. Fauna of Saudi Arabia 3'
    pages: 408–416
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

abstract: 'The distribution of the following Scarabaeoidea (Coleoptera) species in Colorado is established on the basis of preserved specimens and verifiable iNaturalist and literature records: <i>Geotrupes opacus </i>Haldeman, 1853; <i>Onthophagus orpheus </i>(Panzerus, 1794); <i>Digitonthophagus gazella </i>(Fabricius, 1787); <i>Copris fricator </i>(Fabricius, 1787); <i>Copris remotus </i>Leconte, 1866; <i>Phanaeus difformis </i>LeConte, 1847; <i>Boreocanthon probus </i>(Germar, 1824); <i>Aphodius fimetarius </i>(Linnaeus, 1758); <i>Aphodius pedellus </i>(de Geer, 1778); <i>Aphodius (Colobopterus) erraticus </i>(Linnaeus, 1758); <i>Aphodius (Dellacasiellus) kirni </i>Cartwright, 1944; <i>Aphodius (Diapterna) pinguis </i>Haldeman, 1848; <i>Aphodius (Melinopterus) prodromus </i>(Brahm, 1790); <i>Aphodius (Planolinoides) pectoralis </i>LeConte, 1857; <i>Parapsammodius puncticollis </i>(LeConte, 1858); <i>Pleurophorus caesus </i>(Panzer, 1796); <i>Phyllophaga inversa </i>(Horn, 1887); <i>Chrysina gloriosa </i>(LeConte, 1855); <i>Cotalpa subcribrata </i>Wickham,1905; <i>Paracotalpa granicollis </i>(Haldeman, 1852); <i>Popillia japonica </i>Newman, 1838; <i>Euphoria fulgida </i>(Fabricius, 1775); <i>Osmoderma subplanatum </i>Casey, 1915; <i>Dyscinetus picipes </i>(Burmeister, 1847); <i>Orizabus mcclevei </i>Warner, 2011; <i>Orizabus clunalis </i>(LeConte, 1856); <i>Xyloryctes thestalus </i>Bates, 1888; <i>Strategus aloeus </i>(Linnaeus, 1758). <i>Digitonthophagus gazella, Copris fricator, Copris remotus, Aphodius kirni, Aphodius pectoralis, Phyllophaga inversa, Osmoderma subplanatum, Chrysina gloriosa</i>, and <i>Strategus aloeus </i>are new state records for Colorado, the latter two most probably passively transported to the state and not established. The occurrence of the Japanese beetle, <i>Popillia japonica</i>, in Colorado is documented in detail as a result of a state-wide citizen science project. The invasive histories of <i>Digitonthophagus gazella, Aphodius fimetarius, A. pedellus, A. erraticus, A. prodromus, Pleurophorus caesus</i>, and <i>Popillia japonica </i>are outlined. Chemical attraction of several species to common pest lures is discussed and the phenology for all species is established'
---