---
title: '<i>Culicoides</i> Latreille and <i>Leptoconops</i> Skuse biting midges of the southwestern United States with emphasis on the Canyonlands of southeastern Utah (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae)'
date: '2022-01-28'
doi: ''
journal: Insecta Mundi
issue: '0907'
pagination: '1-214'
zoobank: 'urn:lsid:zoobank.org:pub:CBD29188-143B-44DF-BE21-1654D50D8621'

authors:
  - first_name: 'Robert A.' 
    last_name: 'Phillips'
    affiliation: '2962 Desert Road Moab, UT 84532 USA'
    email: 'raphillips.bp@gmail.com'
    orcid: ''

download: 'https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ivuUHvvPyTbP4FiVXiU4A-bNOEX3ClYf'

supplementary: ''

keywords:
  - Leptoconopinae
  - Ceratopogoninae
  - Culicoidini
  - Nearctic
  - intersex
  - vector
  - new state records
  - Arizona
  - California
  - Colorado
  - Idaho
  - Nevada
  - New Mexico
  - new United States record
  
categories:
  - Diptera
  - Ceratopogonidae
  
references:
  - authors: Abubekerov LA.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Morphology of the immature stages of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>Wirth and Jones (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) with observations on their biology [MS thesis]. University of California; Riverside, CA'
    pages: 113 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Abubekerov LA, Mullens BA.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Egg and larval morphology of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 55'
    pages: 553–560
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Akey DH, Barnard DR.
    year: 1983
    title: 'Parity in airborne populations of the biting gnat <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in northeastern Colorado. Environmental Entomology 12'
    pages: 91–95
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Akey DH, Potter HW.
    year: 1979
    title: 'Pigmentation associated with oogenesis in the biting fly <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae): determination of parity. Journal of Medical Entomology 16'
    pages: 67–70
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Akey DH, Potter HW, Jones RH.
    year: 1978
    title: 'Effects of rearing temperature and larval density on longevity, size, and fecundity in the biting gnat <i>Culicoides variipennis</i>. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 71'
    pages: 411–418
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Amador GJ, Durand F, Mao W, Pusulri S, Takahashi H, Nguyen VT, Shimoyama I, Alexeev A, Hu DL.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Insects have hairy eyes that reduce particle deposition. European Physical Journal Special Topics 224'
    pages: 3361–3377
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Anderson JR, Linhares AX.
    year: 1989
    title: 'Comparison of several different trapping methods for <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Coquillett) (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 5'
    pages: 325–334
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Anderson RR, Holloway HL.
    year: 1993
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) associated with white-tailed deer habitat and livestock operations in the northern Great Plains. Journal of Medical Entomology 30'
    pages: 625–627
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Arnaud P.
    year: 1956
    title: 'The heleid genus <i>Culicoides </i>in Japan, Korea and Ryukyu Islands (Insecta: Diptera). Microentomology 21'
    pages: 84–207
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atchley WR.
    year: 1967
    title: 'The <i>Culicoides </i>of New Mexico (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). University of Kansas Science Bulletin 46'
    pages: 937–1020
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atchley WR.
    year: 1970
    title: 'A biosystematic study of the subgenus <i>Selfia </i>of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). University of Kansas Science Bulletin 49'
    pages: 181–336
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atchley WR.
    year: 1971a
    title: 'A comparative study of the cause and significance of morphological variation in adults and pupae of <i>Culicoides</i>: a factor analysis and multiple regression study. Evolution 25'
    pages: 563–583
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atchley WR.
    year: 1971b
    title: 'A statistical analysis of geographic variation in the pupae of three species of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Evolution 25'
    pages: 51–74
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atchley WR.
    year: 1973
    title: 'A quantitative separation of the females of <i>Culicoides </i>(<i>Selfia</i>) <i>denningi</i>, <I>C</I>. (<I>S</I>.) <i>hieroglyphicus </i>and <I>C</I>. (<I>S</I>.) <i>jamesi </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 10'
    pages: 629–632
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atchley WR.
    year: 1974
    title: 'A quantitative taxonomic analysis of <i>Leptoconops torrens </i>and <I>L</I>. <i>carteri </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 11'
    pages: 467–470
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atchley WR, Wirth WW.
    year: 1975
    title: 'Two new western <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) which are vectors of filaria in the California valley quail. Canadian Journal of Zoology 53'
    pages: 1421–1423
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atchley WR, Wirth WW.
    year: 1979
    title: 'A review of the <i>Culicoides haematopotus </i>group in North America (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 52'
    pages: 524–545
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atkinson CT.
    year: 1988
    title: 'Epizootiology of <i>Haemoproteus meleagridis </i>(Protozoa: Haemosporina) in Florida: potential vectors and prevalence in naturally infected <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 25'
    pages: 39–44
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Atkinson CT, Greiner EC, Forrester DJ.
    year: 1983
    title: 'Experimental vectors of <i>Haemoproteus meleagridis </i>Levine from wild turkeys in Florida. Journal of Wildlife Diseases 19'
    pages: 366–368
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barnard DR.
    year: 1980
    title: 'Effectiveness of light-traps for assessing airborne <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>populations. Journal of Economic Entomology 73'
    pages: 844–846
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barnard DR, Jones RH.
    year: 1980a
    title: '<i>Culicoides variipennis</i>: seasonal abundance, overwintering, and voltinism in Northeastern Colorado. Environmental Entomology 9'
    pages: 709–712
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barnard DR, Jones RH.
    year: 1980b
    title: 'Diel and seasonal patterns of flight activity of Ceratopogonidae in northeastern Colorado: <i>Culicoides</i>. Environmental Entomology 9'
    pages: 446–451
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bartlett CM, Anderson RC.
    year: 1980
    title: 'Development of <i>Chandlerella chitwoodae </i>Anderson, 1961 (Filarioidea: Onchocercidae) in <i>Culicoides stilobezzioides </i>Foote and Pratt and <I>C</I>. <i>travisi </i>Vargas (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Canadian Journal of Zoology 58'
    pages: 1002–1006
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Battle FV, Turner EC Jr.
    year: 1971
    title: 'The insects of Virginia: No 3, a systematic review of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) of Virginia with a geographic catalog of the species occurring in the eastern United States north of Florida. Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Research Division Bulletin 44'
    pages: 1–129
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Baylis M, O’Connell L, Mellor PS.
    year: 2008
    title: 'Rates of bluetongue virus transmission between <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>and sheep. Medical and Veterinary Entomology 22'
    pages: 228–237
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Becker ME, Reeves WK, Dejean SK, Emery MP, Ostlund EN, Foil LD.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Detection of bluetongue virus RNA in field-collected <i>Culicoides </i>spp. (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) following the discovery of bluetongue virus serotype 1 in white-tailed deer and cattle in Louisiana. Journal of Medical Entomology 47'
    pages: 269–273
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Becker ME, Roberts J, Schroeder ME, Gentry G, Foil LD.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Prospective study of epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus and bluetongue virus transmission in captive ruminants. Journal of Medical Entomology 57'
    pages: 1277–1285
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Becvar T, Vojtkova B, Siriyasatien P, Votypka J, Modry D, Jahn P, Paul Bates P, Carpenter S, Volf P, Sadlova J.
    year: 2021
    title: 'Experimental transmission of <i>Leishmania </i>(<i>Mundinia</i>) parasites by biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). PLoS Pathogens 17(6): e1009654. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bennett GF.
    year: 1961
    title: 'On the specificity and transmission of some avian trypanosomes. Canadian Journal of Zoology 39'
    pages: 17–33
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bennett GF, Fallis AM.
    year: 1960
    title: 'Blood parasites of birds in Algonquin Park, Canada, and a discussion of their transmission. Canadian Journal of Zoology 38'
    pages: 261–273
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bernotienė R, Žiegytė R, Vaitkutė G, Valkiūnas G.
    year: 2019
    title: 'Identification of a new vector species of avian haemoproteids, with a description of methodology for the determination of natural vectors of haemosporidian parasites. Parasites & Vectors 12'
    pages: 307
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Blanton FS, Wirth WW.
    year: 1979
    title: 'The sand flies (<i>Culicoides</i>) of Florida (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Arthropods of Florida and Neighboring Land Areas 10'
    pages: 1–204
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Borkent A.
    year: 2012
    title: 'The pupae of Culicomorpha—morphology and a new phylogenetic tree. Zootaxa 3396'
    pages: 1–98
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Borkent A.
    year: 2014
    title: 'The pupae of the biting midges of the world (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae), with a generic key and analysis of the phylogenetic relationships between genera. Zootaxa 3879'
    pages: 1–327
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Borkent A, Dominiak P.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Catalog of the biting midges of the world (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Zootaxa 4787'
    pages: 1–377
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Borkent A, Grogan WL Jr.
    year: 2009
    title: 'Catalog of the New World biting midges north of Mexico (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Zootaxa 2273'
    pages: 1–48
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Borkent A, Spinelli GR.
    year: 2000
    title: 'Catalog of the New World biting midges south of the United States of America (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Contributions on Entomology, International 4'
    pages: 1–107
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Borkent A, Spinelli GR.
    year: 2007
    title: 'Neotropical Ceratopogonidae (Diptera: Insecta). In: Adis J, Arias JR, Rueda-Delgado G, Wantzen KM (eds.). Aquatic biodiversity in Latin America (ABLA). Volume 4. Pensoft; Sofia-Moscow'
    pages: 198 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Borkent A, Wirth WW.
    year: 1997
    title: 'World species of biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History 233'
    pages: 1–257
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Braverman Y, Frish K, Reis M, Mumcuoglu KY.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Host preference of <i>Culicoides </i>spp from Israel based on sensory organs and morphometry (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Entomologia Generalis 34'
    pages: 97–110
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Braverman Y, Hulley PE.
    year: 1979
    title: 'The relationship between the numbers and distribution of some antennal and palpal sense organs and host preference in some <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) from southern Africa. Journal of Medical Entomology 15'
    pages: 419–424
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Braverman Y, Messaddeq N, Kremer M.
    year: 1993
    title: 'Abnormal features in specimens of eight <i>Culicoides </i>spp. (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) from the eastern Mediterranean area. Israel Journal of Zoology 39'
    pages: 157–166
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Breidenbaugh MS, Mullens BA.
    year: 1999a
    title: 'Descriptions of immature stages of six <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille spp. (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) from desert mountain ranges in Southern California, with notes on life histories and rearing technique. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 101'
    pages: 839–867
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Breidenbaugh MS, Mullens BA.
    year: 1999b
    title: 'Two new western Nearctic <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) described from all stages. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 101'
    pages: 149–163
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brenner RJ, Wargo MJ.
    year: 1984
    title: 'Observations on adult bionomics and larval ecology of <i>Leptoconops torrens </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) during an outbreak in the Coachella Valley of Southern California, USA. Journal of Medical Entomology 21'
    pages: 460–469
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brenner RJ, Wargo MJ, Mulla MS.
    year: 1984a
    title: 'Bionomics and vector potential of <i>Leptoconops foulki </i>and <I>L</I>. <i>knowltoni </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in the lower desert of Southern California, USA. Journal of Medical Entomology 21'
    pages: 447–459
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brenner RJ, Wargo MJ, Stains GS, Mulla MS.
    year: 1984b
    title: 'The dispersal of <i>Culicoides mohave </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in the desert of Southern California. Mosquito News 44'
    pages: 343–350
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brickle DS, Hagan DV.
    year: 1999
    title: 'The <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) of Belize, Central America. Insecta Mundi 13'
    pages: 39–44
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Brown DE.
    year: 1982
    title: 'Chihuahuan desertscrub. Desert Plants 4'
    pages: 169–179
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bullock HR.
    year: 1952
    title: 'Culicoid gnats of Salt Lake County [MS thesis]. University of Utah; Salt Lake City, UT'
    pages: 69 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Callot J.
    year: 1959
    title: 'Action d’un <i>Agamomermis </i>sur les caractères sexuels d’un Cératopogonidé. Annales de Parasitologie 34'
    pages: 439–443
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Callot J, Kremer M.
    year: 1963
    title: 'Intersexués chez de <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Annales de Parasitologie 38'
    pages: 113–120
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Callot J, Kremer M.
    year: 1969
    title: 'Description de <i>Culicoides dobyi </i>n. sp. (Diptera Ceratopogonidae). Bulletin de la Société de Pathologie Exotique et de ses Filiales 62'
    pages: 610–613
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Campbell CL, Mummey DL, Schmidtmann ET, Wilson WC.
    year: 2004
    title: 'Culture-independent analysis of midgut microbiota in the arbovirus vector <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 41'
    pages: 340–348
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Campbell JA, Pelham-Clinton EC.
    year: 1960
    title: 'A taxonomic review of the British species of <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Section B: Biological Sciences 67'
    pages: 181–302
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Carpenter S, Groschup MH, Garros C, Felippe-Bauer ML, Purse BV.
    year: 2013
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>biting midges, arboviruses and public health in Europe. Antiviral Research 100'
    pages: 102–113
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Carpenter S, Wilson A, Barber J, Veronesi E, Mellor P, Venter G, Gubbins S.
    year: 2011
    title: 'Temperature dependence of the extrinsic incubation period of orbiviruses in <i>Culicoides </i>biting midges. PLoS ONE 6(11): e27987. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Carter HF.
    year: 1921
    title: 'A revision of the genus <i>Leptoconops</i>, Skuse. Bulletin of Entomological Research 12'
    pages: 1–28
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chanmol W, Jariyapan N, Somboon P, Bates MD, Bates PA.
    year: 2019
    title: 'Development of <i>Leishmania orientalis </i>in the sand fly <i>Lutzomyia longipalpis </i>(Diptera: Psychodidae) and the biting midge <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Acta Tropica 199'
    pages: 105157
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Childers CC, Wingo CW.
    year: 1968
    title: 'Genus <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera-Ceratopogonidae) in central Missouri. Missouri Agricultural Experiment Station Research Bulletin 934'
    pages: 1–32
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Clarke TB, Fukuda T.
    year: 1967
    title: 'Predation of <i>Culicoides cavaticus </i>Wirth and Jones larvae on <i>Aedes sierrensis </i>(Ludlow). Mosquito News 27'
    pages: 424–425
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Clastrier J.
    year: 1974
    title: '<i>Leptoconops </i>(<i>Proleptoconops</i>) <i>hutsoni </i>n. sg., n. sp. du Sahara Algerien septentrional (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Parassitologia 16'
    pages: 231–238
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Clastrier J, Wirth WW.
    year: 1978
    title: 'The <i>Leptoconops kerteszi </i>complex in North America (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). United States Department of Agriculture Technical Bulletin 1573'
    pages: 1–58
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cochrane AH.
    year: 1973
    title: 'Two new Nearctic species of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Florida Entomologist 56'
    pages: 311–318
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cochrane AH.
    year: 1974
    title: 'Two new species of biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) from North America. Florida Entomologist 57'
    pages: 127–135
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cole FR, Schlinger EI.
    year: 1969
    title: 'The flies of western North America. University of California; Berkeley and Los Angeles, CA'
    pages: 693 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cole GA, Whiteside MC.
    year: 1965
    title: 'Kaituthlanna—a limnological appraisal: II: chemical factors and biota. Plateau 38'
    pages: 36–48
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Collins RC, Jones RH.
    year: 1978
    title: 'Laboratory transmission of <i>Onchocerca cervicalis </i>with <i>Culicoides variipennis</i>. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 27'
    pages: 46–50
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Colwell AE.
    year: 1981
    title: 'Biting midges (<i>Culicoides occidentalis</i>) at Borax Lake, California. Proceedings of the California Mosquito and Vector Control Association 49'
    pages: 53–55
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Coquillett DW.
    year: 1901
    title: 'New Diptera in the U.S. National Museum. Proceedings of the National Museum 23'
    pages: 593–618
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Coquillett DW.
    year: 1905
    title: 'New nematocerous Diptera from North America. Journal of the New York Entomological Society 13'
    pages: 56–69
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Costello BA.
    year: 1982
    title: 'Light trap collections of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in the Fraser Valley of British Columbia. Journal of the Entomological Society of British Columbia 79'
    pages: 66–70
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Covey H, Hall RH, Krafsur A, Matthews ML, Shults PT, Brelsfoard CL.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Cryptic <i>Wolbachia </i>(Rickettsiales: Rickettsiaceae) detection and prevalence in <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) midge populations in the United States. Journal of Medical Entomology 57'
    pages: 1262–1269
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Crane GT, Elbel RE, Francy DB, Calisher CH.
    year: 1983
    title: 'Arboviruses from western Utah, USA, 1967–1976. Journal of Medical Entomology 20'
    pages: 294–300
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cribb BW, Chitra E.
    year: 1998
    title: 'Ultrastructure of the eggs of <i>Culicoides molestus </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 14'
    pages: 363–368
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Day JF, Duzak D, Braverman Y, Chizof-Ginzburg A, Linley JR.
    year: 1997
    title: 'Ultrastructure of the eggs of <i>Culicoides circumscriptus</i>, <i>Culicoides gejgelensis</i>, and <i>Culicoides imicola </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 13'
    pages: 76–83
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Dijkstra E, van der Ven IJK, Meiswinkel R, Hölzel DR, Van Rijn PA.
    year: 2008
    title: '<i>Culicoides chiopterus </i>as a potential vector of bluetongue virus in Europe. Veterinary Record 162'
    pages: 422
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Downes JA.
    year: 1978
    title: 'The <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>complex: a necessary re-alignment of nomenclature (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Canadian Entomologist 110'
    pages: 63–69
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Downes JA, Wirth WW.
    year: 1981
    title: 'Chapter 28. Ceratopogonidae. p. 393–421. In: McAlpine JF, Peterson BV, Shewell GE, Teskey HJ, Vockeroth JR, Wood DM (coordinators.). Manual of Nearctic Diptera. Volume 1. Agriculture Canada Monograph 27'
    pages: 1–674
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Drolet BS, Campbell CL, Stuart MA, Wilson WC.
    year: 2005
    title: 'Vector competence of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) for vesicular stomatitis virus. Journal of Medical Entomology 42'
    pages: 409–418
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Dyce AL.
    year: 1969
    title: 'The recognition of nulliparous and parous <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) without dissection. Journal of the Australian Entomological Society 8'
    pages: 11–15
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Edmunds LR, Keener GG.
    year: 1954
    title: 'Observations on the biting habits of <i>Culicoides crepuscularis </i>Malloch in western Nebraska, with notes on other species collected in light traps (Diptera, Heleidae). Mosquito News 14'
    pages: 82–83
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Edwards FW, Oldroyd H, Smart J.
    year: 1939
    title: 'British blood-sucking flies. British Museum; London'
    pages: 156 p., 45 pl
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: EFSA Panel on Animal Health and Welfare.
    year: 2009
    title: 'Scientific opinion on epizootic hemorrhagic disease. EFSA Journal 7'
    pages: 1–67
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Elbel RE, Crane GT, Calisher CH.
    year: 1977
    title: 'Arbovirus isolations from southwestern Utah and northwestern Arizona insects 1972–1975. Mosquito News 37'
    pages: 497–507
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Elbers ARW, Meiswinkel R.
    year: 2015
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) and livestock in the Netherlands: comparing host preference and attack rates on a Shetland pony, a dairy cow, and a sheep. Journal of Vector Ecology 40'
    pages: 308–317
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Erram D.
    year: 2016
    title: 'Characterization of the larval habitat of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) with emphasis on the significance of animal manure and the associated bacterial community [PhD dissertation]. Kansas State University; Manhattan, KS'
    pages: 183 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Erram D, Blosser EM, Burkett-Cadena N.
    year: 2019
    title: 'Habitat associations of <i>Culicoides </i>species (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) abundant on a commercial cervid farm in Florida, USA. Parasites & Vectors 12'
    pages: 367
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Erram D, Burkett-Cadena N.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Laboratory studies on the oviposition stimuli of <i>Culicoides stellifer </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae), a suspected vector of orbiviruses in the United States. Parasites & Vectors 11'
    pages: 300
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Erram D, Burkett-Cadena N.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Laboratory rearing of <i>Culicoides stellifer </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae), a suspected vector of orbiviruses in the United States. Journal of Medical Entomology 57'
    pages: 25–32
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Erram D, Zurek L.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Larval development of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in mud supplemented with manure of various farm animals. Journal of Medical Entomology 55'
    pages: 43–50
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fallis AM, Bennett GF.
    year: 1961a
    title: 'Ceratopogonidae as intermediate hosts for <i>Haemoproteus </i>and other parasites. Mosquito News 21'
    pages: 21–28
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fallis AM, Bennett GF.
    year: 1961b
    title: 'Sporogony of <i>Leucocytozoon </i>and <i>Haemoproteus </i>in simuliids and ceratopogonids and a revised classification of the Haemosporidia. Canadian Journal of Zoology 39'
    pages: 215–228
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Foil L, Stage D, Klei TR.
    year: 1984
    title: 'Assessment of wild-caught <i>Culicoides </i>(Ceratopogonidae) species as natural vectors of <i>Onchocerca cervicalis </i>in Louisiana. Mosquito News 44'
    pages: 204–206
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fontaine RE, Green DH, Smith LM.
    year: 1957
    title: 'Ecological observations of the valley black gnat, <i>Leptoconops torrens </i>Townsend. Journal of Economic Entomology 50'
    pages: 764–767
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Foote RH, Pratt HD.
    year: 1954
    title: 'The <i>Culicoides </i>of the eastern United States (Diptera, Heleidae). Public Health Monograph 18'
    pages: 1–53
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Forattini OP.
    year: 1957
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>da região Neotropical (Diptera, Ceratopogonidae). Arquivos da Faculdade de Higiene e Saúde Pública da Universidade de São Paulo 11'
    pages: 161–526
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Foster NM, Metcalf HE, Barber TL, Jones RH, Luedke AJ.
    year: 1980
    title: 'Bluetongue and epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus isolations from vertebrate and invertebrate hosts at a common geographic site. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 176'
    pages: 126–129
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Foulk JD.
    year: 1966
    title: 'Drainage of a desert spring creek for control of <i>Leptoconops kerteszi </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Mosquito News 26'
    pages: 230–235
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Foulk JD.
    year: 1967
    title: 'Blood meal size of <i>Leptoconops kerteszi </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Mosquito News 27'
    pages: 424
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Foulk JD.
    year: 1968
    title: 'The resting behavior of the desert ceratopogonid, <i>Leptoconops kerteszi</i>. Journal of Medical Entomology 5'
    pages: 223–229
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Foulk JD.
    year: 1969
    title: 'Attack activity of two species of gnats in Southern California. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 62'
    pages: 112–116
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fox I.
    year: 1942
    title: 'The respiratory trumpet and anal segment of the pupae of some species of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Puerto Rico Journal of Public Health and Tropical Medicine 17'
    pages: 412–425
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fox I.
    year: 1946
    title: 'Two new biting midges or <i>Culicoides </i>from western United States (Diptera, Ceratopogonidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 48'
    pages: 244–246
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fox I.
    year: 1955
    title: 'A catalogue of the bloodsucking midges of the Americas (<i>Culicoides</i>, <i>Leptoconops </i>and <i>Lasiohelea</i>) with keys to the subgenera and Nearctic species, a geographic index, and bibliography. Journal of Agriculture of University of Puerto Rico 39'
    pages: 214–285
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fox I, Hoffman WA.
    year: 1944
    title: 'New Neotropical biting sandflies of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Puerto Rico Journal of Public Health and Tropical Medicine 20'
    pages: 108–111
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Foxi C, Delrio G, Falchi G, Marche MG, Satta GS, Ruiu L.
    year: 2016
    title: 'Role of different <i>Culicoides </i>vectors (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in bluetongue virus transmission and overwintering in Sardinia (Italy). Parasites & Vectors 9'
    pages: 440
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fredeen FJH.
    year: 1969
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>(<i>Selfia</i>) <i>denningi</i>, a unique river-breeding species. Canadian Entomologist 101'
    pages: 539–544
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Freeborn SB, Zimmerman EC.
    year: 1934
    title: 'The males of <i>Leptoconops torrens</i>, Tns., and <I>L</I>. <i>kerteszi</i>, Kieff. Bulletin of Entomological Research 25'
    pages: 257–262
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gadow H.
    year: 1908
    title: 'Through southern Mexico, being an account of the travels of a naturalist. Charles Scribner’s Sons; New York'
    pages: 527 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Garros C, Gardes L, Allene X, Rakotoarivony I, Viennet E, Rossi S, Balenghien T.
    year: 2011
    title: 'Adaptation of a species-specific multiplex PCR assay for the identification of blood meal source in <i>Culicoides </i>(Ceratopogonidae: Diptera): applications on Palaearctic biting midge species, vectors of orbiviruses. Infection, Genetics and Evolution 11'
    pages: 1103–1110
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Garvin MC, Greiner EC.
    year: 2003
    title: 'Ecology of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in southcentral Florida and experimental vectors of the avian hematozoan <i>Haemoproteus danilewskyi </i>Kruse. Journal of Wildlife Diseases 39'
    pages: 170–178
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gerhardt RR.
    year: 1986
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>spp. attracted to ruminants in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Tennessee. Journal of Agricultural Entomology 3'
    pages: 192–197
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gerry AC, Mullens BA.
    year: 1998
    title: 'Response of male <i>Culicoides variipennis sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) to carbon dioxide and observations of mating behavior on and near cattle. Journal of Medical Entomology 35'
    pages: 271–244
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gerry AC, Mullens BA.
    year: 2000
    title: 'Seasonal abundance and survivorship of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) at a Southern California dairy, with reference to potential bluetongue virus transmission and persistence. Journal of Medical Entomology 37'
    pages: 675–688
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gerry AC, Mullens BA, Maclachlan NJ, Mecham JO.
    year: 2001
    title: 'Seasonal transmission of bluetongue virus by <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) at a Southern California dairy and evaluation of vectorial capacity as a predictor of bluetongue virus transmission. Journal of Medical Entomology 38'
    pages: 197–209
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gerry AC, Nawaey TM, Sanghrajka PB, Wisniewska J, Hullinger P.
    year: 2008
    title: 'Hematophagous Diptera collected from a horse and paired carbon dioxide-baited suction trap in Southern California: relevance to West Nile virus epizootiology. Journal of Medical Entomology 45'
    pages: 115–124
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ghosh A, Jasperson D, Cohnstaedt LW, Brelsfoard CL.
    year: 2019
    title: 'Transfection of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>biting midge cell lines with <i>Wolbachia pipientis</i>. Parasites & Vectors 12'
    pages: 483
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Glick JI, Mullen GR.
    year: 1983
    title: 'Two species of <i>Culicoides </i>of the <i>piliferus </i>group (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) from the eastern United States. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 85'
    pages: 277–383
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Glukhova VM.
    year: 1977
    title: 'The subgeneric classification of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille, 1809 (Diptera, Ceratopogonidae), with a consideration of the structure of the larval phase [in Russian]. Parazitologicheskiĭ Sbornik 27'
    pages: 112–118
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Glukhova VM.
    year: 1989
    title: 'Blood-sucking midges of the genera <i>Culicoides </i>and <i>Forcipomyia </i>(Ceratopogonidae) [in Russian]. Fauna of the USSR 139, Vol. 3(5a). Nauka; St. Petersburg, Russia'
    pages: 408 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gomulski LM, Meiswinkel R, Delécolle JC, Goffredo M, Gasperi G.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Phylogeny of the subgenus <i>Culicoides </i>and related species in Italy, inferred from internal transcribed spacer 2 ribosomal DNA sequences. Medical and Veterinary Entomology 20'
    pages: 229–238
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Greiner EC.
    year: 1975
    title: 'Prevalence and potential vectors of <i>Haemoproteus </i>in Nebraska mourning doves. Journal of Wildlife Diseases 11'
    pages: 150–156
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lysyk TJ.
    year: 2015
    title: 'A revision of the biting midges in the <i>Culicoides </i>(<i>Monoculicoides</i>) <i>nubeculosus</i>-<i>stigma </i>complex in North America with the description of a new species (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Insecta Mundi 0441'
    pages: 1–24
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Phillips RA.
    year: 2008
    title: 'A new species of biting midge in the subgenus <i>Monoculicoides </i>of <i>Culicoides </i>from Utah (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 110'
    pages: 196–203
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Spinelli GR, Phillips RA, Woodward DL.
    year: 2004
    title: 'The male of <i>Culicoides reevesi </i>Wirth, with a redescription of the female and new seasonal activity, distribution, and biting records (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Western North American Naturalist 64'
    pages: 433–438
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Guirgis SS.
    year: 1984
    title: 'New records of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) for New York state and Suffolk County, Long Island, NY. Mosquito News 44'
    pages: 400–403
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hair JA.
    year: 1966
    title: 'Bionomics of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Virginia [PhD dissertation]. Virginia Polytechnic Institute; Blacksburg, VA'
    pages: 123 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hair JA, Turner EC Jr.
    year: 1968
    title: 'Preliminary host preference studies on Virginia <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Mosquito News 28'
    pages: 103–107
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Messersmith DH.
    year: 1966
    title: 'Larval habitats of some Virginia <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Mosquito News 26'
    pages: 195–204
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Halouzka J, Hubálek Z.
    year: 1996
    title: 'Biting midges (Ceratopogonidae) of medical and veterinary importance (a review). Acta Scientiarum Naturalium Brno 30'
    pages: 1–56
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hardy JL, Lyness RN, Rush WA.
    year: 1972
    title: 'Experimental vector and wildlife host ranges of Buttonwillow virus in Kern County, California. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 21'
    pages: 100–109
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Harrup LE, Bellis GA, Balenghien T, Garros C.
    year: 2015
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) taxonomy: current challenges and future directions. Infection, Genetics and Evolution 30'
    pages: 249–266
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hayes ME, Mullen GR, Nusbaum KE.
    year: 1984
    title: 'Comparison of <i>Culicoides </i>spp. (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) attracted to cattle in an open pasture and bordering woodland. Mosquito News 44'
    pages: 368–370
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hayes RO, Francy DB, Lazuick JS, Smith GC, Jones RH.
    year: 1976
    title: 'Arbovirus surveillance in six states during 1972. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 25'
    pages: 463–476
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hearle E.
    year: 1938
    title: 'Insects and allied parasites injurious to livestock and poultry in Canada. Dominion of Canada, Department of Agriculture Publication 604'
    pages: 1–108
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hensleigh DA, Atchley WR.
    year: 1977
    title: 'Morphometric variability in natural and laboratory populations of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 14'
    pages: 379–386
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Herman CM.
    year: 1944
    title: 'The blood protozoa of North American birds. Bird Banding 15'
    pages: 89–112
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hibler CP.
    year: 1963
    title: 'Onchocercidae (Nematoda: Filarioidea) of the American magpie, <i>Pica pica hudsonia </i>(Sabine), in northern Colorado [PhD dissertation]. Colorado State University; Fort Collins, CO'
    pages: 189 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Higgins JA, Klei TR, Foil LD.
    year: 1988
    title: 'Factors influencing the ingestion of <i>Onchocerca cervicalis </i>microfilariae by <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 4'
    pages: 242–247
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hoffman WA.
    year: 1925
    title: 'A review of the species of <i>Culicoides </i>of North and Central America and the West Indies. American Journal of Hygiene 5'
    pages: 274–301
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hoffman WA.
    year: 1926
    title: 'Two new species of American <i>Leptoconops </i>(Diptera, Chironomidae). Bulletin of Entomological Research 17'
    pages: 133–136
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Holbrook FR.
    year: 1988
    title: 'Bluetongue in the United States: status, transmission, and control through vector suppression. Bulletin of the Society for Vector Ecology 13'
    pages: 350–353
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Holbrook FR, Tabachnick WJ.
    year: 1995
    title: '<i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) complex in California. Journal of Medical Entomology 32'
    pages: 413–419
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Holbrook FR, Tabachnick WJ, Schmidtmann ET, McKinnon CN, Bobian RJ, Grogan WL Jr.
    year: 2000
    title: 'Sympatry in the <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>complex (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae): a taxonomic reassessment. Journal of Medical Entomology 37'
    pages: 65–76
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hood DE, Welch HE.
    year: 1980
    title: 'Insect fauna of nests of the red-winged blackbird, <i>Agelaius phoeniceus</i>, at Delta Marsh, Manitoba. Canadian Entomologist 112'
    pages: 567–562
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hopken MW.
    year: 2016
    title: 'Pathogen vectors at the wildlife-livestock interface: molecular approaches to elucidating <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) biology [PhD dissertation]. Colorado State University; Fort Collins, CO'
    pages: 134 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hopken MW, Ryan BM, Huyvaert KP, Piaggio AJ.
    year: 2017
    title: 'Picky eaters are rare: DNA-based blood meal analysis of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) species from the United States. Parasites & Vectors 10'
    pages: 169
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Huerta H.
    year: 2007
    title: 'Datos del material tipo de <i>Culicoides </i>(<i>Drymodesmyia</i>) <i>bakeri </i>Vargas (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Acta Zoológica Mexicana 23'
    pages: 23–28
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ibanez-Bernal S.
    year: 2012
    title: 'New records of biting midges of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille from Mexico (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Insecta Mundi 0211'
    pages: 1–20
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Huizinga HW, Granath WO.
    year: 1984
    title: 'Seasonal prevalence of <i>Chandlerella quiscali </i>(Onchocercidae: Filarioidea) in brain of the common grackle (<i>Quiscalus quiscula versicolor</i>). Proceedings of the Helminthological Society of Washington 51'
    pages: 191–195
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Humphreys JG, Turner EC Jr.
    year: 1973
    title: 'Blood-feeding activity of female <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 10'
    pages: 79–83
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Hunt GJ.
    year: 1994
    title: 'A procedural manual for the large-scale rearing of the biting midge, <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, ARS-121'
    pages: 1–68
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Iezhova TA, Valkiūnas G, Bairlein F.
    year: 2005
    title: 'Vertebrate host specificity of two avian malaria parasites of the subgenus <i>Novyella</i>: <i>Plasmodium nucleophilum </i>and <i>Plasmodium vaughani</i>. Journal of Parasitology 91'
    pages: 472–474
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Isberg E, Hillbur Y, Ignell R.
    year: 2013
    title: 'Comparative study of antennal and maxillary palp olfactory sensilla of female biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae: <i>Culicoides</i>) in the context of host preferences and phylogeny. Journal of Medical Entomology 50'
    pages: 485–492
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: James MT.
    year: 1943
    title: 'The genus <i>Culicoides </i>in northern Colorado (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Pan-Pacific Entomologist 19'
    pages: 148–153
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jamnback H.
    year: 1965
    title: 'The <i>Culicoides </i>of New York state (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). New York State Museum and Science Service Bulletin 399'
    pages: 1–154
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jamnback H, Watthews T.
    year: 1963
    title: 'Studies of populations of adult and immature <i>Culicoides sanguisuga </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 56'
    pages: 728–732
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jamnback H, Wirth WW.
    year: 1963
    title: 'The species of <i>Culicoides </i>related to <i>obsoletus </i>in eastern North America (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 56'
    pages: 185–198
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jenkins DW.
    year: 1948
    title: 'Ecological observations on the blackflies and punkies of central Alaska. Mosquito News 8'
    pages: 148–154
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jewiss-Gaines A, Barelli L, Hunter FF.
    year: 2017
    title: 'First records of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae), a known vector of bluetongue virus, in southern Ontario. Journal of Medical Entomology 54'
    pages: 757–762
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Johannsen OA.
    year: 1943
    title: 'A generic synopsis of the Ceratopogonidae (Heleidae) of the Americas, a bibliography, and a list of the North American species. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 36'
    pages: 763–791
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH.
    year: 1956
    title: 'New species of <i>Culicoides </i>from Wisconsin. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 58'
    pages: 25–33
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH.
    year: 1957
    title: 'The laboratory colonization of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Coq.). Journal of Economic Entomology 50'
    pages: 107–108
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH.
    year: 1959
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>breeding in human sewage sites of dwellings in Texas. Mosquito News 19'
    pages: 164–167
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH.
    year: 1960
    title: 'Mass-production methods for the colonization of <i>Culicoides variipennis sonorensis</i>. Journal of Economic Entomology 52'
    pages: 731–735
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH.
    year: 1961a
    title: 'Descriptions of pupae of thirteen North American species of <i>Culicoides </i>(Ceratopogonidae: Diptera). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 54'
    pages: 729–746
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH.
    year: 1961b
    title: 'Observations on the larval habitats of some North American species of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 54'
    pages: 702–710
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH.
    year: 1961c
    title: 'Some observations on biting flies attacking sheep. Mosquito News 21'
    pages: 113–115
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH.
    year: 1965
    title: 'Epidemiological notes: incidence of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>in an outbreak of bluetongue disease. Mosquito News 25'
    pages: 217–218
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH.
    year: 1967
    title: 'An overwintering population of <i>Culicoides </i>in Colorado. Journal of Medical Entomology 4'
    pages: 461–463
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH, Foster NM.
    year: 1969
    title: 'Transovarian transmission of bluetongue virus by <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>unlikely. Mosquito News 31'
    pages: 434–437
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Francy DB.
    year: 1977
    title: 'A survey of biting flies attacking equines in three states of the Southwestern United States, 1972. Journal of Medical Entomology 14'
    pages: 441–447
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH, Luedke AJ.
    year: 1969
    title: 'Epidemiological notes: two bluetongue epizootics. Mosquito News 29'
    pages: 461–464
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rhodes HA.
    year: 1972
    title: 'Ceratopogonidae attacking horses in south Texas during the 1971 VEE epidemic. Mosquito News 32'
    pages: 507–509
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH, Wirth WW.
    year: 1958
    title: 'New records, synonymy, and species of Texas <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera, Heleidae). Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 31'
    pages: 81–91
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jones RH, Wirth WW.
    year: 1978
    title: 'A new species of western <i>Culicoides </i>of the <i>stonei </i>group (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Entomological News 89'
    pages: 56–58
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Jorgensen NM.
    year: 1969
    title: 'The systematics, occurrence, and host preference of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in southeastern Washington. Melanderia 3'
    pages: 1–47
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kettle DS, Lawson JWH.
    year: 1952
    title: 'The early stages of British biting midges <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) and allied genera. Bulletin of Entomological Research 43'
    pages: 421–467
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Khalaf KT.
    year: 1952a
    title: 'The <i>Culicoides </i>of the Wichita Refuge, Oklahoma, taxonomy and seasonal incidence (Diptera, Heleidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 45'
    pages: 348–358
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Khalaf KT.
    year: 1952b
    title: 'The male of <i>Culicoides weesei </i>Khalaf (Heleidae, Diptera). Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 25'
    pages: 65
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Khalaf KT.
    year: 1954
    title: 'The speciation of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Heleidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 47'
    pages: 34–51
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Khalaf KT.
    year: 1957
    title: 'Light-trap survey of the <i>Culicoides </i>of Oklahoma (Diptera, Heleidae). American Midland Naturalist 58'
    pages: 182–221
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Khalaf KT.
    year: 1969
    title: 'Distribution and phenology of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) along the Gulf of Mexico. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 62'
    pages: 1153–1161
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kieffer JJ.
    year: 1906
    title: 'Genera Insectorum. Fascicle 42. Diptera fam Chironomidae. L. Desmet-Verteneuil; Brussels, Belgium'
    pages: 78 p. + 4 pl
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kieffer JJ.
    year: 1908
    title: 'Description d’une espece nouvelle de Chironomides d’Egypte. Annales Historico Naturales Musei Nationalis Hungarici 6'
    pages: 576–577
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kieffer JJ.
    year: 1918
    title: 'Chironomides d’Afrique et d’Asie conservès au Museum National Hongrois de Budapest. Annales Historico Naturales Musei Nationalis Hungarici 16'
    pages: 31–136
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kitaoka S.
    year: 1984
    title: 'Two types of sexual aberration in <i>Culicoides </i>spp. (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Japanese Journal of Sanitary Zoology 35'
    pages: 391–394
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kline DL, Axtell RC.
    year: 1999
    title: 'Sensilla of the antennae and maxillary palps of <i>Culicoides hollensis </i>and <I>C</I>. <i>melleus </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 36'
    pages: 493–502
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kline DL, Greiner EC.
    year: 1985
    title: 'Observations on larval habitats of suspected <i>Culicoides </i>vectors of bluetongue virus in Florida. p. 221–227. In: Barber TL, Jochim MM (eds.). Bluetongue and related orbiviruses. AR Liss; New York'
    pages: 746 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Knausenberger WI.
    year: 1986
    title: 'Contributions to the autecology and ecosystematics of immature Ceratopogonidae (Diptera), with emphasis on the tribes Heteromyiini and Sphaeromiini in the Middle Atlantic United States [PhD dissertation]. Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University; Blacksburg, VA'
    pages: 729 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Knowlton GF, Fronk LE.
    year: 1950
    title: 'Some locality records of Utah Heleidae. Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 23'
    pages: 113–114
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Knowlton GF, Kardos EH.
    year: 1951
    title: 'Utah Heleidae. Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 24'
    pages: 163
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Koch HG, Axtell RC.
    year: 1979
    title: 'Attraction of <i>Culicoides furens </i>and <I>C</I>. <i>hollensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) to animal hosts in a salt marsh habitat. Journal of Medical Entomology15'
    pages: 494–499
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kohler CE, Fox I.
    year: 1951
    title: 'The relative attractiveness of New Jersey light traps painted a) green and b) yellow to Puerto Rican <i>Culicoides</i>. Journal of Economic Entomology 44'
    pages: 112–113
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kono H, Takahasi H.
    year: 1940
    title: 'A revision of the <i>Culicoides </i>species of Saghalien and Hokkaido (Ceratopogonidae, Diptera). Insecta Matsumurana 14'
    pages: 69–77
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kramer WL, Jones RH, Holbrook FR, Walton TE, Calisher CH.
    year: 1990
    title: 'Isolation of arboviruses from <i>Culicoides </i>midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Colorado during an epizootic of vesicular stomatitis New Jersey. Journal of Medical Entomology 27'
    pages: 487–493
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Kruger EL, Pappas LG, Pappas CD.
    year: 1990
    title: 'Habitat and temporal partitioning of tree hole <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 6'
    pages: 390–393
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lamberson C, Pappas CD, Pappas LG.
    year: 1992
    title: 'Pupal taxonomy of the tree-hole <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in eastern North America. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 85'
    pages: 111–120
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lassen SB, Nielsen SA, Kristensen M.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Identity and diversity of blood meal hosts of biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae: <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille) in Denmark. Parasites & Vectors 5'
    pages: 143
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Latreille PA.
    year: 1809
    title: 'The Crustacea, Arachnides and Insecta, volume IV. H. M’Murtrie, translator. Carvill; New York. 545 p. Translation of: Genera Crustaceorum et Insectorum, tomus quartus. Paris and Strasbourg'
    pages: 399 p. + 4 pl
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lawyer PG.
    year: 1971
    title: 'Colonization and biology of the biting gnat <i>Leptoconops kerteszi </i>Kieffer (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) [MS thesis]. University of Utah; Salt Lake City, UT'
    pages: 79 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lehiy CJ, Reister-Hendricks LM, Ruder MG, McVey DS, Drolet BS.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Physiological and immunological responses to <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>blood-feeding: a murine model. Parasites & Vectors 11'
    pages: 358
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linhares AX, Anderson JR.
    year: 1990
    title: 'The influence of temperature and moonlight on flight activity of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Coquillett) (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Northern California. Pan-Pacific Entomologist 66'
    pages: 199–207
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linley JR.
    year: 1983
    title: 'Autogeny in the Ceratopogonidae: literature and notes. Florida Entomologist 66'
    pages: 228–234
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linley JR.
    year: 1985
    title: 'Biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) as vectors of nonviral animal pathogens. Journal of Medical Entomology 22'
    pages: 589–599
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Linley JR, Hoch AL, Pinheiro FP.
    year: 1983
    title: 'Biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) and human health.<i>Journal of Medical Entomology </i>20'
    pages: 347–364
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Orihel TC, Eberhard ML.
    year: 1982
    title: '<i>Culicoides variipennis</i>, a laboratory vector for the Amazon form of <i>Mansonella ozzardi</i>. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 31'
    pages: 166–167
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lysyk TJ.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Abundance and species composition of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) at cattle facilities in southern Alberta, Canada. Journal of Medical Entomology 43'
    pages: 840–849
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lysyk TJ.
    year: 2007
    title: 'Seasonal Abundance, parity, and survival of adult <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in southern Alberta, Canada. Journal of Medical Entomology 44'
    pages: 959–969
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lysyk TJ, Danyk T.
    year: 2007
    title: 'Effect of temperature on life history parameters of adult <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in relation to geographic origin and vectorial capacity for bluetongue virus. Journal of Medical Entomology 44'
    pages: 741–751
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lysyk TJ, Dergousoff SJ.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Distribution of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Alberta, Canada. Journal of Medical Entomology 51'
    pages: 560–571
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lysyk TJ, Galloway TD.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Chapter 14. Biting flies (Culicidae, Ceratopogonidae, Tabanidae) of the prairies ecozone. p. 389–398. In: Cárcamo HA, Giberson DJ (eds.). Arthropods of Canadian grasslands. Volume 3. Biological Survey of Canada; Ottawa, Canada'
    pages: 413 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Macfie JWS.
    year: 1948
    title: 'Some species of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) from the state of Chiapas, Mexico. Annals of Tropical Medicine and Parasitology 42'
    pages: 67–87
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Malloch JR.
    year: 1915
    title: 'The Chironomidae, or midges, of Illinois, with particular reference to the species occurring in the Illinois River. Bulletin of the Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History 10'
    pages: 274–543
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Martin E, Chu E, Shults P, Golnar A, Swanson DA, Benn J, Kim D, Schneider P, Pena S, Culver C, Medeiros MCI, Hamer SA, Hamer GL.
    year: 2019
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>species community composition and infection status with parasites in an urban environment of east central Texas, USA. Parasites & Vectors 12'
    pages: 39
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Martínez-de la Puente J, Martínez J, Ferraguti M, Morales-de la Nuez A, Castro N, Figuerola J.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Genetic characterization and molecular identification of the bloodmeal sources of the potential bluetongue vector <i>Culicoides obsoletus </i>in the Canary Islands, Spain. Parasites & Vectors 5'
    pages: 147
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Martínez-de la Puente J, Martínez J, Rivero-de Aguilar J, Herrero J, Merino S.
    year: 2011
    title: 'On the specificity of avian blood parasites: revealing specific and generalist relationships between haemosporidians and biting midges. Molecular Ecology 20'
    pages: 3275–3287
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mathieu B, Garros C, Balenghien T, Candolfi E, Delécolle J, Cetre-Sossah C.
    year: 2020
    title: 'A phylogenetic analysis of the biting midges belonging to <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) subgenus <i>Avaritia </i>using molecular data. Parasites & Vectors 13'
    pages: 243
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mayo CE, Mullens BA, Reisen WK, Osborne CJ, Gibbs EPJ, Gardner IA, MacLachlan NJ.
    year: 2014a
    title: 'Seasonal and interseasonal dynamics of bluetongue virus infection of dairy cattle and <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>midges in Northern California— implications for virus overwintering in temperate zones. PLoS ONE 9(9): e106975. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mayo CE, Osborne CJ, Mullens BA, Gerry AC, Gardner IA, Reisen WK, Barker CM, MacLachlan NJ.
    year: 2014b
    title: 'Seasonal variation and impact of waste-water lagoons as larval habitat on the population dynamics of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) at two dairy farms in Northern California. PLoS ONE 9(2): e89633. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McDermott EG, Lysyk TJ.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Sampling considerations for adult and immature <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Insect Science 20(6)'
    pages: 1–11
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McDermott EG, Mayo CE, Gerry AC, Laudier D, MacLachlan NJ, Mullens BA.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Bluetongue virus infection creates light averse <i>Culicoides </i>vectors and serious errors in transmission risk estimates. Parasites & Vectors 8'
    pages: 460
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McDermott EG, Mayo CE, Gerry AC, Mullens BA.
    year: 2016
    title: 'Trap placement and attractant choice affect capture and create sex and parity biases in collections of the biting midge, <i>Culicoides sonorensis</i>. Medical and Veterinary Entomology 30'
    pages: 293–300
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McDermott EG, Mayo CE, Mullens BA.
    year: 2017
    title: 'Low temperature tolerance of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) eggs, larvae, and pupae from temperate and subtropical climates. Journal of Medical Entomology 54'
    pages: 264–274
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McDermott EG, Mullens BA.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Desiccation tolerance in the eggs of the primary North American bluetongue virus vector, <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae), and implications for vector persistence. Journal of Medical Entomology 51'
    pages: 1151–1158
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McDermott EG, Mullens BA.
    year: 2018
    title: 'The dark side of light traps. Journal of Medical Entomology 55'
    pages: 251–261
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McGregor BL, Connelly CR, Kenney JL.
    year: 2021
    title: 'Infection, dissemination, and transmission potential of North American <i>Culex quinquefasciatus</i>, <i>Culex tarsalis</i>, and <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>for Oropouche virus. Viruses 13'
    pages: 226
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McGregor BL, Erram D, Acevedo C, Alto BW, Burkett-Cadena ND.
    year: 2019a
    title: 'Vector competence of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) for epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus serotype 2 strains from Canada and Florida. Viruses 11'
    pages: 367
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McGregor BL, Runkel AE IV, Wisely SM, Burkett-Cadena ND.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Vertical stratification of <i>Culicoides </i>biting midges at a Florida big game preserve. Parasites & Vectors 11'
    pages: 505
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McGregor BL, Sloyer KE, Sayler KA, Goodfriend O, Campos Krauer JM, Acevedo C, Zhang X, Mathias D, Wisely SM, Burkett-Cadena ND.
    year: 2019b
    title: 'Field data implicating <i>Culicoides stellifer </i>and <i>Culicoides venustus </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) as vectors of epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus. Parasites & Vectors 12'
    pages: 258
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McGregor BL, Stenn T, Sayler KA, Blosser EM, Blackburn JK, Wisely SM, Burkett-Cadena ND.
    year: 2019c
    title: 'Host use patterns of <i>Culicoides </i>spp. biting midges at a big game preserve in Florida, U.S.A., and implications for the transmission of orbiviruses. Medical and Veterinary Entomology 33'
    pages: 110–120
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McMullen RD.
    year: 1978
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) of the South Okanagan area of British Columbia. Canadian Entomologist 110'
    pages: 1053–1057
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: McPhatter L, Gerry AC.
    year: 2017
    title: 'Effect of CO2 concentration on mosquito collection rate using odor-baited suction traps. Journal of Vector Ecology 42'
    pages: 44–50
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Megahed MM.
    year: 1956
    title: 'Anatomy and histology of the alimentary tract of the female of the biting midge <i>Culicoides nubeculosus </i>Meigen (Diptera: Heleidae = Ceratopogonidae). Parasitology 46'
    pages: 22–47
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mehlhorn H, Walldorf V, Klimpel S, Jahn B, Jaeger F, Eschweiler J, Hoffmann B, Beer M.
    year: 2007
    title: 'First occurrence of <i>Culicoides obsoletus</i>-transmitted bluetongue virus epidemic in central Europe. Parasitology Research 101'
    pages: 219–228
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Meigen JW.
    year: 1818
    title: 'Systematische Beschreibung der bekannten Europäischen zweiflügeligen. Insekten 1'
    pages: 1–333
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Meigen JW.
    year: 1830
    title: 'Systematische Beschreibung der bekannten Europäischen zweiflügeligen. Insekten 6'
    pages: 1–401
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Meiswinkel R, Gomulski LM, Delécolle JC, Goffredo M, Gasperi G.
    year: 2004
    title: 'The taxonomy of <i>Culicoides </i>vector complexes— unfinished business. Veterinaria Italiana 40'
    pages: 151–159
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mellor PS, Boorman J, Baylis M.
    year: 2000
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>biting midges: their role as arbovirus vectors. Annual Review of Entomology 45'
    pages: 307–340
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mills MK, Ruder MG, Nayduch D, Michel K, Drolet BS.
    year: 2017
    title: 'Dynamics of epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus infection within the vector, <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). PLoS ONE 12(11): e0188865. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mirsa M, Ortiz I.
    year: 1952
    title: 'Estudios en <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) 10. Sobre la hembra de <i>Culicoides dominicii </i>Ortiz, 1951. Boletín del Laboritorio de la Clínica “Luis Razetti” 16'
    pages: 475–478
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mirzaeva AG, Isaev VA.
    year: 1990
    title: 'Revision of the subgenus <i>Culicoides </i>s. str. (Diptera, Ceratopogonidae) [In Russian]. Novye I Maloizvetnye Vidy Fauny Sibiri 21'
    pages: 92–99
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Möhlmann TWR.
    year: 2019
    title: 'Mosquitoes, midges and microbiota, European vector diversity and the spread of pathogens [PhD dissertation]. Wageningen University; Wageningen, The Netherlands'
    pages: 280 p.
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Möhlmann TWR, Oymans J, Wichgers Schreur PJ, Koenraadt CJM, Kortekaas J, Vogels CBF.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Vector competence of biting midges and mosquitoes for Shuni virus. PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases 12(12): e0006993. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Monarch.
    year: 2021
    title: 'Monarch Collections Search Results Table.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://monarch.calacademy.org/collections/listtabledisplay.php?taxa=Culicoides;Leptoconops&thes=1&type=1&occindex=1&sortfield1=Scientific
    access: (Last accessed 10 April 2021.)

  - authors: Morales-Hojas R, Hinsley M, Armean IM, Silk R, Harrup LE, Gonzalez-Uriarte A, Veronesi E, Campbell L, Nayduch D, Saski C, Tabachnick WJ, Kersey P, Carpenter S, Fife M.
    year: 2018
    title: 'The genome of the biting midge <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>and gene expression analyses of vector competence for bluetongue virus. BMC Genomics 19'
    pages: 624
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullen GR, Hayes ME, Nusbaum KE.
    year: 1985a
    title: 'Potential vectors of bluetongue and epizootic hemorrhagic disease viruses of cattle and white-tailed deer in Alabama. p. 201–206. <i>In</i>: Barber TL, Jochim MM (eds.). Bluetongue and related orbiviruses. AR Liss; New York'
    pages: 746 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullen GR, Hribar LJ.
    year: 1988
    title: 'Biology and feeding behavior of ceratopogonid larvae (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in North America. Bulletin of the Society for Vector Ecology 13'
    pages: 60–81
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullen GR, Jones RH, Braverman Y, Nusbaum KE.
    year: 1985b
    title: 'Laboratory infections of <i>Culicoides debilipalpis </i>and <I>C</I>. <i>stellifer </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) with bluetongue virus. p. 239–243. In: Barber TL, Jochim MM (eds.). Bluetongue and related orbiviruses. AR Liss; New York'
    pages: 746 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA.
    year: 1987
    title: 'Seasonal size variability in <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Southern California. Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 3'
    pages: 512–513
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA.
    year: 1989
    title: 'A quantitative survey of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in dairy wastewater ponds in Southern California. Journal of Medical Entomology 26'
    pages: 559–565
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA.
    year: 1995
    title: 'Flight activity and response to carbon dioxide of <i>Culicoides variipennis sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Southern California. Journal of Medical Entomology 32'
    pages: 310–315
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Barrows C, Borkent A.
    year: 1997a
    title: 'Lizard feeding by <i>Leptoconops </i>(<i>Brachyconops</i>) <i>californiensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) on desert sand dunes. Journal of Medical Entomology 34'
    pages: 735–737
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Cardona CJ, McClellan L, Szijj CE, Owen JP.
    year: 2006
    title: '<i>Culicoides bottimeri </i>as a vector of <i>Haemoproteus lophortyx </i>to quail in California, USA. Veterinary Parasitology 140'
    pages: 35–43
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Dada CE.
    year: 1992a
    title: 'Insects feeding on desert bighorn sheep, domestic rabbits, and Japanese quail in the Santa Rosa Mountains of Southern California. Journal of Wildlife Diseases 28'
    pages: 476–480
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Dada CE.
    year: 1992b
    title: 'Spatial and seasonal distribution of potential vectors of hemorrhagic disease viruses to peninsular bighorn sheep in the Santa Rosa Mountains of Southern California. Journal of Wildlife Diseases 28'
    pages: 192–205
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Gerry AC.
    year: 1998
    title: 'Comparison of bait cattle and carbon dioxide-baited suction traps for collecting <i>Culicoides variipennis sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) and <i>Culex quinquefasciatus </i>(Diptera: Culicidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 35'
    pages: 245–250
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Holbrook FR.
    year: 1991
    title: 'Temperature effects on the gonotrophic cycle of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 7'
    pages: 588–591
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Lii K.
    year: 1987
    title: 'Larval population dynamics of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Southern California. Journal of Medical Entomology 24'
    pages: 566–574
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Luhring KA.
    year: 1996
    title: 'Salinity and pollution effects on survival and infectivity of <i>Heleidomermis magnapapula </i>(Stichosomida: Mermithidae) for <i>Culicoides variipennis sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Environmental Entomology 25'
    pages: 1202–1208
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Luhring KA, Breidenbaugh MS.
    year: 1997b
    title: 'Experimental host range studies with <i>Heleidomermis magnapapula </i>(Mermithidae), a parasite of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 13'
    pages: 398–401
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Rodriguez JL.
    year: 1988
    title: 'Colonization and response of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) to pollution levels in experimental dairy wastewater ponds. Journal of Medical Entomology 25'
    pages: 441–451
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Rodriguez JL.
    year: 1989
    title: 'Response of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) to water level fluctuations in experimental dairy wastewater ponds. Journal of Medical Entomology 26'
    pages: 566–572
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Rodriguez JL.
    year: 1992
    title: 'Survival and vertical distribution of larvae of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in drying mud habitats. Journal of Medical Entomology 29'
    pages: 745–749
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Sarto I Monteys V, Przhiboro AA.
    year: 2008
    title: 'Mermithid parasitism in the Ceratopogonidae: A literature review and critical assessment of host impact and potential for biological control. Russian Entomological Journal 17'
    pages: 87–113
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA, Schmidtmann ET.
    year: 1982
    title: 'The gonotrophic cycle of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) and its implications in age-grading field populations in New York state, USA. Journal of Medical Entomology 19'
    pages: 340–349
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Muñoz-Muñoz F, Ramoneda J, Pagès N, Pujol N, Talavera S.
    year: 2016
    title: 'Is the morphology of <i>Culicoides </i>intersexes parasitized by mermithid nematodes a parasite adaptation? A morphometric approach to <i>Culicoides circumscriptus </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Invertebrate Pathology 135'
    pages: 1–9
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Murphree CS, Mullen GR.
    year: 1991
    title: 'Comparative larval morphology of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in North America with a key to species. Bulletin of the Society for Vector Ecology 16'
    pages: 269–399
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Murray WS.
    year: 1957
    title: 'Investigations on the bionomics of <i>Culicoides obsoletus </i>(Meigen) and other biting midges at Mount Salon, Virginia. Mosquito News 17'
    pages: 77–82
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Naugle DE, Aldridge CL, Walker BL, Cornish TE, Moynahan BJ, Holloran MJ, Brown K, Johnson GD, Schmidtmann ET, Mayer RT, Kato CY, Matchett MR, Christiansen TJ, Cook WE, Creekmore T, Falise RD, Rinkes ET, Boyce MS.
    year: 2004
    title: 'West Nile virus: pending crisis for greater sage-grouse. Ecology Letters 7'
    pages: 704–713
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nayduch D, Lee MB, Saski CA.
    year: 2014
    title: 'The reference transcriptome of the adult female biting midge (<i>Culicoides sonorensis</i>) and differential gene expression profiling during teneral, blood, and sucrose feeding conditions. PLoS ONE 9(5): e98123. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nayduch D, Shankar V, Mills MK, Rob T, Drolet BS, Ruder MG, Scully ED, Saski CA.
    year: 2019
    title: 'Transcriptome response of female <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) to early infection with epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV-2). Viruses 11'
    pages: 473
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nelson RL.
    year: 1965
    title: 'Carbon dioxide as an attractant for <i>Culicoides</i>. Journal of Medical Entomology 2'
    pages: 56–57
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nelson RL, Bellamy RE.
    year: 1971
    title: 'Patterns of flight activity of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Coquillett) (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 8'
    pages: 283–291
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nelson RL, Scrivani RP.
    year: 1972
    title: 'Isolations of arboviruses from parous midges of the <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>complex, and parous rates in biting populations. Journal of Medical Entomology 9'
    pages: 277–281
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Neupane S, Ghosh A, Gunther S, Martin K, Zurek L.
    year: 2020
    title: '<i>Culicoidibacter larvae </i>gen. nov., sp. nov., from the gastrointestinal tract of the biting midge (<i>Culicoides sonorensis</i>) larva, belongs to a novel lineage <i>Culicoidibacteraceae </i>fam. nov., <i>Culicoidibacterales </i>ord. nov. and <i>Culicoidibacteria </i>classis nov. of the phylum <i>Firmicutes</i>. International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ninio C, Augot D, Delécolle JC, Dufour B, Depaquit J.
    year: 2011
    title: 'Contribution to the knowledge of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) host preferences in France. Parasitology Research 108'
    pages: 657–663
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nishijima Y, Ono H.
    year: 1964
    title: 'Identification of blood meals of heleid biting midges by the precipitin test (Diptera). Japanese Journal of Sanitary Zoology 15'
    pages: 131–135
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nunamaker RA, Pérez de León AA, Campbell CC, Lonning SM.
    year: 2000
    title: 'Oral infection of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) by vesicular stomatitis virus. Journal of Medical Entomology 37'
    pages: 784–786
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Okada T.
    year: 1941
    title: 'Biting midges collected from the northeastern district of Honsyu, Japan. Journal of the College of Agriculture, Imperial University of Tokyo 15'
    pages: 13–31
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: O’Rourke MJ, Loomis EC, Smith DW.
    year: 1983
    title: 'Observations on some <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) larval habitats in areas of bluetongue virus outbreaks in California. Mosquito News 43'
    pages: 147–152
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ortiz I.
    year: 1951
    title: 'Estudios sobre <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) VII. <i>Culicoides dominicii </i>n. sp. y clave para el reconocimiento de las especies venezolanas. Contribuciones Ocasionales del Museo de Historia Natural del Colegio de La Salle 5'
    pages: 1–12
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Gruber AD, Ewen J, Pérez-Tris J, Valkiūnas G, Olias P.
    year: 2019
    title: '<i>Haemoproteus minutus </i>is highly virulent for Australasian and South American parrots. Parasites & Vectors 12'
    pages: 40
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Osborne CJ, Mayo CE, Mullens BA, McDermott EG, Gerry AC, Reisen WK, MacLachlan NJ.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Lack of evidence for laboratory and natural vertical transmission of bluetongue virus in <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 52'
    pages: 274–277
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pagès N, Muñoz-Muñoz F, Verdún M, Pujol N, Talavera S.
    year: 2017
    title: 'First detection of <i>Wolbachia</i>-infected <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Europe: <i>Wolbachia </i>and <i>Cardinium </i>infection across <i>Culicoides </i>communities revealed in Spain. Parasites & Vectors 10'
    pages: 582
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Paine EO, Mullens BA.
    year: 1994
    title: 'Distribution, seasonal occurrence, and patterns of parasitism of <i>Heleidomermis magnapapula </i>(Nematoda: Mermithidae), a parasite of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in California. Environmental Entomology 23'
    pages: 154–160
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Palinauskas V, Iezhova TA, Križanauskienė A, Markovets MY, Bensch S, Valkiūnas G.
    year: 2013
    title: 'Molecular characterization and distribution of <i>Haemoproteus minutus </i>(Haemosporida, Haemoproteidae): a pathogenic avian parasite. Parasitology International 62'
    pages: 358–363
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pappas LG, Moyer S, Pappas CD.
    year: 1991
    title: 'Tree hole <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) of the Central Plains in the United States. Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 7'
    pages: 624–627
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pappas CD, Pappas LG.
    year: 1990
    title: 'Habitat pH characteristics of tree hole <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 6'
    pages: 99–100
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pérez de León AA, O’Toole D, Tabachnick WJ.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Transmission of vesicular stomatitis virus to guinea pigs by the biting midge, <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 43'
    pages: 568–573
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pérez de León AA, Tabachnick WJ.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Transmission of vesicular stomatitis New Jersey virus to cattle by the biting midge <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 43'
    pages: 323–329
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pfannenstiel RS, Mullens BA, Ruder MG, Zurek L, Cohnstaedt LW, Nayduch D.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Management of North American <i>Culicoides </i>biting midges: current knowledge and research needs. Vector-Borne and Zoonotic Diseases 15'
    pages: 374–384
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pfannenstiel RS, Ruder MG.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Colonization of bison (<i>Bison bison</i>) wallows in a tall grass prairie by <i>Culicoides </i>spp (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Vector Ecology 40'
    pages: 187–190
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Phillips RA.
    year: 2015
    title: 'A new species of <i>Culicoides </i>(<i>Selfia</i>) (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) from southeastern Utah. Journal of Medical Entomology 52'
    pages: 842–849
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Mullens BA.
    year: 2006
    title: 'A new synonym of the biting midge, <i>Culicoides bottimeri </i>Wirth, with a redescription, new distribution records, and seasonal activity data (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Zootaxa 1122'
    pages: 47–55
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pilgrim J, Siozios S, Baylis M, Venter G, Garros C, Hurst GDD.
    year: 2021
    title: 'Identifying potential candidate <i>Culicoides </i>spp. for the study of interactions with <i>Candidatus </i>Cardinium hertigii. Medical and Veterinary Entomology 35(3)'
    pages: 501–506
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Podlipaev S, Votýpka J, Jirků M, Svobodová M, Lukeš J.
    year: 2004
    title: '<i>Herpetomonas ztiplika </i>n. sp. (Kinetoplastida: Trypanosomatidae): a parasite of the blood-sucking biting midge <i>Culicoides kibunensis </i>Tokunaga, 1937 (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Parasitology 90'
    pages: 342–347
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Poinar GO, Mullens BA.
    year: 1987
    title: '<i>Heleidomermis magnapapula </i>n. sp. (Mermithidae: Nematoda) parasitizing <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Ceratopogonidae: Diptera) in California. Revue Nematology 10'
    pages: 387–391
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Pratt FC.
    year: 1907
    title: 'Notes on punkies. U.S. Department of Agriculture Bureau of Entomology Bulletin 64'
    pages: 23–28
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Price DA, Hardy WT.
    year: 1954
    title: 'Isolation of the bluetongue virus from Texas sheep—<i>Culicoides </i>shown to be a vector. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association. 124'
    pages: 255–258
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Quaglia AI, Blosser EM, McGregor BL, Runkel AE IV, Sloyer KE, Erram D, Wisely SM, Burkett-Cadena ND.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Tracking community timing: pattern and determinants of seasonality in <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in northern Florida. Viruses 12'
    pages: 931
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rees DM, Bullock HR.
    year: 1954
    title: 'Culicoid gnats of Salt Lake County, Utah (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae (= Heleidae). Journal of the Utah Academy Sciences, Arts, and Letters 31'
    pages: 42–43
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rees DM, Collett GC, Winget RN.
    year: 1969
    title: 'The <i>Leptoconops </i>problem in Utah. Proceedings of the Utah Mosquito Abatement Association 22'
    pages: 29–30
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rees DM, Lawyer PG, Winget RN.
    year: 1971
    title: 'Colonization of <i>Leptoconops kerteszi </i>Kieffer by anautogenous and autogenous reproduction a (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 8'
    pages: 266–271
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rees DM, Smith JV.
    year: 1950
    title: 'Effective control methods used on biting gnats in Utah during 1949 (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Mosquito News 10'
    pages: 9–15
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rees DM, Winget RN.
    year: 1970
    title: 'Current investigations in Utah of the biting gnat <i>Leptoconops kerteszi</i>. Mosquito News 30'
    pages: 121–127
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Reeves WC, Schrivani RP, Hardy JL, Roberts DR, Nelson RL.
    year: 1970
    title: 'Buttonwillow virus, a new arbovirus isolated from mammals and <i>Culicoides </i>midges in Kern County, California. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 19'
    pages: 544–551
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Reeves WK.
    year: 2008
    title: 'Osmoregulatory organs of immature <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in North America. Entomological News 119'
    pages: 371–374
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Reeves WK.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Behavior of larval <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in response to an invertebrate predator, <i>Hydra littoralis </i>(Anthomedusae: Hydridae). Entomological News 121'
    pages: 298–301
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Super PE.
    year: 2004
    title: 'Hematophagous and parasitic Diptera (Insecta) in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, USA. Zootaxa 483'
    pages: 1–44
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Reeves WK, Jones GZ.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Effects of melezitose and stachyose on adult longevity and virus persistence in <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Western North American Naturalist 70'
    pages: 114–116
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rieb JP, Mialhe E, Quiot JM.
    year: 1982
    title: 'Ceratopogonidae larvae infected by an iridovirus. Mosquito News 42'
    pages: 529
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Roberts RH.
    year: 1965
    title: 'A steer-baited trap for sampling insects affecting cattle. Mosquito News 25'
    pages: 281–285
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Robinson EJ Jr.
    year: 1961
    title: 'Early development of an avian filarial worm in the gnat, <i>Culicoides crepuscularis</i>. Journal of Parasitology 47'
    pages: 898
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Robinson EJ Jr.
    year: 1971
    title: '<i>Culicoides crepuscularis </i>(Malloch) (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) as a host for <i>Chandlerella quiscali </i>(von Linstow, 1904) comb. n. (Filarioidea: Onchocercidae). Journal of Parasitology 57'
    pages: 772–776
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Romney SV.
    year: 1971
    title: 'The bionomics of the rock pool mosquito <i>Aedes atropalpus nielseni </i>Craig and O’Meara with a survey of associate flora and fauna [PhD dissertation]. University of Utah; Salt Lake City, UT'
    pages: 169 p
    doi:
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ronderos MM, Spinelli G.
    year: 1992
    title: 'A key to the Neotropical <i>Leptoconops </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae), with the description of a new species from Argentina. Revista de la Sociedad Entomologica Argentina 51'
    pages: 41–45
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Root FM, Hoffman WA.
    year: 1937
    title: 'The North American species of <i>Culicoides</i>. American Journal of Hygiene 25'
    pages: 150–176
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rosenstock SS, Ramberg F, Collins JK, Rabe MJ.
    year: 2003
    title: '<i>Culicoides mohave </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae): new occurrence records and potential role in transmission of hemorrhagic disease. Journal of Medical Entomology 40'
    pages: 577–579
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Roug A, Swift P, Torres S, Jones K, Johnson CK.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Serosurveillance for livestock pathogens in free-ranging mule deer (<i>Odocoileus hemionus</i>). PLoS ONE 7(11): e50600. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rowley WA.
    year: 1967
    title: 'Observations on larval habitats and the winter bionomics of some common species of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in the Central Columbia Basin. Mosquito News 27'
    pages: 499–505
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rozo-Lopez P, Drolet BS, Londoño-Renteria B.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Vesicular stomatitis virus transmission: a comparison of incriminated vectors. Insects 9'
    pages: 190
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Rozo-Lopez P, Londoño-Renteria B, Drolet BS.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Venereal transmission of vesicular stomatitis virus by <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>midges. Pathogens 9'
    pages: 316
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ruder MG, Howerth EW, Stallknecht DE, Allison AB, Carter DL, Drolet BS, Klement E, Mead DM.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Vector competence of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) to epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus serotype 7. Parasites & Vectors 5'
    pages: 236
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ryckman RE.
    year: 1953
    title: 'Insects reared from cacti in Arizona. Pan-Pacific Entomologist 29'
    pages: 163–164
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ryckman RE.
    year: 1960
    title: 'Biology of cactiphilic species of Ceratopogonidae (Diptera). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 53'
    pages: 659–661
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ryckman RE.
    year: 1961
    title: 'Parasitic Ceratopogonidae and Simuliidae (Diptera) from Imperial County, California. Journal of Parasitology 47'
    pages: 405
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ryckman RE, Ryckman AE.
    year: 1963
    title: 'Loma Linda University’s 1962 expedition to Baja California: medical entomology and parasitology. Medical Arts and Sciences 17'
    pages: 65–76
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sabio IJ.
    year: 2005
    title: 'Seasonal abundance of and detection of West Nile virus in ceratopogonids (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana [MS thesis]. Louisiana State University; Baton Rouge, LA'
    pages:  56 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sabio IJ, Mackay AJ, Alma R, Foil LD.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Detection of West Nile virus RNA in pools of three species of ceratopogonids (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) collected in Louisiana. Journal of Medical Entomology 43'
    pages: 1020–1022
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sailer RI, Marks EP, Lienk S.
    year: 1956
    title: 'Notes on <i>Culicoides </i>in Alaska. Mosquito News 16'
    pages: 270–278
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Santiago-Alarcon D, Havelka P, Pineda E, Segelbacher G, Schaefer HM.
    year: 2013
    title: 'Urban forests as hubs for novel zoonosis: blood meal analysis, seasonal variation in <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) vectors, and avian haemosporidians. Parasitology. 140'
    pages: 1799–1810
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Santiago-Alarcon D, Havelka P, Schaefer HM, Segelbacher G.
    year: 2012a
    title: 'Blood meal analysis reveals avian <i>Plasmodium </i>infections and broad host preferences of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) vectors. PLoS ONE 7(2): e31098. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Santiago-Alarcon D, Palinauskas V, Schaefer HM.
    year: 2012b
    title: 'Diptera vectors of avian haemosporidian parasites: untangling parasite life cycles and their taxonomy. Biological Reviews 87'
    pages: 928–964
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schmidtmann ET.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Testing the relationship between dissolved salts in aquatic habitats and immature populations of the <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>complex (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Environmental Entomology 35'
    pages: 1154–1160
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schmidtmann ET, Bobian RJ, Belden RP.
    year: 2000
    title: 'Soil chemistries define aquatic habitats with immature populations of the <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>complex (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of Medical Entomology 37'
    pages: 58–64
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schmidtmann ET, Herrero MV, Green AL, Dargatz DA, Rodriquez JM, Walton TE.
    year: 2011
    title: 'Distribution of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Nebraska, South Dakota, and North Dakota: clarifying the epidemiology of bluetongue disease in the northern Great Plains region of the United States. Journal of Medical Entomology 48'
    pages: 634–643
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schmidtmann ET, Valla ME, Abend JA.
    year: 1981
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>spp. attracted to pastured calves in New York state: evidence of a hematophagous guild? Mosquito News 41'
    pages: 806–808
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schmidtmann ET, Washino RK.
    year: 1982
    title: 'Gonotrophic age structure of host-seeking <i>Leptoconops carteri </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) populations in north-central California. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 75'
    pages: 507–512
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Schoenthal CA.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Monitoring and management of <i>Culicoides </i>spp. (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in white-tailed deer (<i>Odocoileus virginianus</i>) production facilities in Texas, USA [PhD dissertation]. Texas A&M University; College Station, TX'
    pages: 137 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Seblova V, Sadlova J, Vojtkova B, Votypka J, Carpenter S, Bates PA, Volf P.
    year: 2015
    title: 'The biting midge <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) is capable of developing late stage infections of <i>Leishmania enriettii</i>. PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases 9(9): e0004060. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Shepard EM.
    year: 1907
    title: 'Underground waters of Missouri. United States Geological Survey Water-Supply and Irrigation Paper 195'
    pages: 1–224
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Shults P, Borkent A.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Pupae of the Nearctic species of <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille subgenus <i>Monoculicoides </i>Khalaf (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Zootaxa 4504'
    pages: 451–472
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Shults P, Borkent A, Gold R.
    year: 2016
    title: 'The pupa of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>Wirth and Jones (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae)—first detailed description of this stage of the bluetongue virus vector. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 109'
    pages: 280–318
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Shults P, Ho A, Martin EM, McGregor BL, Vargo EL.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Genetic diversity of <i>Culicoides stellifer </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in the Southeastern United States compared with sequences from Ontario, Canada. Journal of Medical Entomology 57'
    pages: 1324–1327
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sick F, Beer M, Kampen H, Wernike K.
    year: 2019
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>biting midges—underestimated vectors for arboviruses of public health and veterinary importance. Viruses 11'
    pages: 376
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sinclair BJ, Borkent A, Wood DM.
    year: 2007
    title: 'The male genital tract and aedeagal components of the Diptera with a discussion of their phylogenetic significance. Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 150'
    pages: 711–742
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sjogren RD, Foulk JD.
    year: 1967
    title: 'Colonization studies of <i>Leptoconops kerteszi</i>, biting gnats. Mosquito News 27'
    pages: 394–397
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Skuse FAA.
    year: 1889
    title: 'Diptera of Australia, Part VI—the Chironomidae. Proceedings of the Linnean Society of New South Wales 4'
    pages: 215–311
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sloyer KE.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Evaluating sampling strategies and ecological niche models for Florida no-see-ums (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae: <i>Culicoides</i>) [MS thesis]. University of Florida; Gainesville, FL'
    pages: 88 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sloyer KE, Acevedo C, Runkel AE, Burkett-Cadena ND.
    year: 2019a
    title: 'Host associations of biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae: <i>Culicoides</i>) near sentinel chicken surveillance locations in Florida, USA. Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 35'
    pages: 200–206
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sloyer KE, Wisely SM, Burkett-Cadena ND.
    year: 2019b
    title: 'Effects of ultraviolet LED versus incandescent bulb and carbon dioxide for sampling abundance and diversity of <i>Culicoides </i>in Florida. Journal of Medical Entomology 56'
    pages: 353–361
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Smith H, Mullens BA.
    year: 2003
    title: 'Seasonal activity, size, and parity of <i>Culicoides occidentalis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in a coastal Southern California salt marsh. Journal of Medical Entomology 40'
    pages: 352–355
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Smith KE, Stallknecht DE.
    year: 1996
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) collected during epizootics of hemorrhagic disease among captive white-tailed deer. Journal of Medical Entomology 33'
    pages: 507–510
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Smith LM, Lowe H.
    year: 1948
    title: 'The black gnats of California. Hilgardia 18'
    pages: 157–183
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Smith WW.
    year: 1965
    title: 'Additional new records of treehole <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in northern Florida. Mosquito News 25'
    pages: 485
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Smith WW, Perry VG.
    year: 1967
    title: 'Intersexes in <i>Culicoides </i>spp. caused by mermithid parasitism in Florida. Journal of Economic Entomology 60'
    pages: 1025–1027
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Smith WW, Varnell JH Jr.
    year: 1967
    title: 'Hydrogen ion concentration (pH) as related to the occurrence and abundance of tree-hole dwelling <i>Culicoides </i>spp., (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in northern Florida. Mosquito News 27'
    pages: 519–521
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Snow WE.
    year: 1955
    title: 'Feeding activities of some blood-sucking Diptera with reference to vertical distribution in bottomland forest. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 48'
    pages: 512–521
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sohn R, Yuill TM.
    year: 1991
    title: 'Bluetongue and epizootic hemorrhagic disease in wild ruminants. Bulletin of the Society for Vector Ecology 16'
    pages: 17–24
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Spinelli GR, Borkent A.
    year: 2004
    title: 'New species of Central American <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) with a synopsis of species from Costa Rica. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 106'
    pages: 361–395
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Spinelli GR, Huerta H.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Four new species of Mesoamerican biting midges of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Acta Entomologica Musei Nationalis Pragae 55'
    pages: 811–824
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Sprygin AV, Fiodorova OA, Babin Y, Elatkin NP, Mathieu B, England ME, Kononov AV.
    year: 2014
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>biting midges (Diptera, Ceratopogonidae) in various climatic zones of Russia and adjacent lands. Journal of Vector Ecology 39'
    pages: 306–315
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Stanford JS.
    year: 1931
    title: 'Notes on Diptera attacking man in Sevier County, Utah. Pan-Pacific Entomologist 7'
    pages: 99–100
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Stevens G, McCluskey B, King A, O’Hearn E, Mayr G.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Review of the 2012 epizootic hemorrhagic disease outbreak in domestic ruminants in the United States. PLoS ONE 10(8): e0133359. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Stokes JE, Darpel KE, Gubbins S, Carpenter S, del Mar Fernández de Marco M, Hernandez-Triana LM, Fooks AR, Johnson N, Sanders C.
    year: 2020
    title: 'Investigation of bovine ephemeral fever virus transmission by putative dipteran vectors under experimental conditions. Parasites & Vectors 13'
    pages: 597
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Stouthamer R, Breeuwer JAJ, Hurst GDD.
    year: 1999
    title: '<i>Wolbachia pipientis</i>: microbial manipulator of arthropod reproduction. Annual Review of Microbiology 53'
    pages: 71–102
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Strickman D, Wirtz R, Lawyer P, Glick J, Stockwell S, Perich M.
    year: 1995
    title: 'Meteorological effects on the biting activity of <i>Leptoconops americanus </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 11'
    pages: 15–20
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Swanson D.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Ecology and phylogeny of the biting-midge genus <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae [PhD dissertation]. Clemson University; Clemson, SC'
    pages: 182 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Swanson DA, Adler PH.
    year: 2010
    title: 'Vertical distribution of haematophagous Diptera in temperate forests of the southeastern U.S.A. Medical and Veterinary Entomology 24'
    pages: 182–188
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Swanson DA, Kapaldo NO, Maki E, Carpenter JW, Cohnstaedt LW.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Diversity and abundance of nonculicid biting flies (Diptera) in a zoo environment. Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 34'
    pages: 265–271
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Swanson DA, Turnbull MW.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Molecular identification of bloodmeals from <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in the Southeastern U.S.A. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 116'
    pages: 354–357
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Synek P, Munclinger P, Albrecht T, Votýpka J.
    year: 2013
    title: 'Avian haemosporidians in haematophagous insects in the Czech Republic. Parasitological Research 112'
    pages: 839–845
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Szadziewski R.
    year: 1996
    title: 'Biting midges from Lower Cretaceous amber of Lebanon and Upper Cretaceous Siberian amber of Taimyr (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Studia Dipterologica 3'
    pages: 23–86
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Szadziewski R, Filatov S, Dominiak P.
    year: 2016
    title: 'A redescription of <i>Culicoides griseidorsum </i>Kieffer, 1918, with comments on subgeneric position of some European taxa (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Zootaxa 4107'
    pages: 413–422
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Tabachnick WJ.
    year: 1992
    title: 'Genetic differentiation among populations of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae), the North American vector of bluetongue virus. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 85'
    pages: 140–147
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Tanner GD, Turner EC Jr.
    year: 1974
    title: 'Vertical activities and host preferences of several <i>Culicoides </i>species in a southwestern Virginia forest. Mosquito News 34'
    pages: 66–70
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Telford SR Jr.
    year: 1988
    title: 'A contribution to the systematics of the reptilian malaria parasites, family Plasmodiidae (Apicomplexa: Haemospororina). Bulletin of the Florida State Museum, Biological Sciences 34'
    pages: 65–96
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Tempelis CH, Nelson RL.
    year: 1971
    title: 'Blood-feeding patterns of midges of the <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>complex in Kern County, California. Journal of Medical Entomology 8'
    pages: 532–534
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Tessaro SV, Clavijo A.
    year: 2001
    title: 'Duration of bluetongue viremia in experimentally infected American bison. Journal of Wildlife Diseases 37'
    pages: 722–729
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Thepparat A, Bellis G, Ketavan C, Ruangsittichai J, Sumruayphol S, Apiwathnasorn C.
    year: 2015
    title: 'Ten species of <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) newly recorded from Thailand. Zootaxa 4033'
    pages: 48–56
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Thomsen LC.
    year: 1937
    title: 'Aquatic Diptera, Part V, Ceratopogonidae. Memoirs of the Cornell University Agricultural Experiment Station 210'
    pages: 57–80
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Tokunaga M.
    year: 1937
    title: 'Sand flies (Ceratopogonidae, Diptera) from Japan. Tenthredo-Acta Entomologica 1'
    pages: 233–338
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Townsend CHT.
    year: 1893
    title: 'An interesting blood-sucking gnat of the family Chironomidae. Psyche 6'
    pages: 369–371
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Turner DS, Olson C.
    year: 2005
    title: 'Blood-feeding midges in Arizona: new lizard hosts and range extension for <i>Leptoconops californiensis</i>. Sonoran Herpetologist 18'
    pages: 54–55
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Vargas L.
    year: 1949
    title: '<i>Culicoides travisi </i>Vargas. n. nom. Revista del Instituto de Salubridad y Enfermedades Tropicales 10'
    pages: 233–234
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Vargas L.
    year: 1953
    title: '<i>Beltranmyia </i>n. subgen. de <i>Culicoides </i>(Insecta: Heleidae). Revista del Instituto de Salubridad y Enfermedades Tropicales 13'
    pages: 33–36
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Vargas L.
    year: 1954
    title: 'Dos nuevas especies de <i>Culicoides </i>Mexicanos (Diptera, Heleidae). Revista del Instituto de Salubridad y Enfermedades Tropicales 14'
    pages: 25–32
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Vargas L.
    year: 1960
    title: 'The subgenera of <i>Culicoides </i>of the Americas (Diptera, Ceratopogonidae). Revista de Biologia Tropical 8'
    pages: 35–47
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Vargas L.
    year: 1973
    title: '<i>Wirthomyia</i>, a new subgenus of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera, Ceratopogonidae). Mosquito News 33'
    pages: 112–113
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Velten RK, Mullens BA.
    year: 1997
    title: 'Field morphological variation and laboratory hybridization of <i>Culicoides variipennis sonorensis </i>and <I>C</I>. <i>v</i>. <i>occidentalis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Southern California. Journal of Medical Entomology 34'
    pages: 277–284
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Veronesi E, Henstock M, Gubbins S, Batten C, Manley R, Barber J, Hoffmann B, Beer M, Attoui H, Paul P, Mertens C, Carpenter S.
    year: 2013
    title: 'Implicating <i>Culicoides </i>biting midges as vectors of Schmallenberg virus using semi-quantitative RT-PCR. PLoS ONE 8(3): e57747. doi'
    pages: 10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Corn JL.
    year: 2014
    title: 'New records of biting midges of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille from the southeastern United States (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Insecta Mundi 0394'
    pages: 1–14
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Walgama RS, Lysyk TJ.
    year: 2019
    title: 'Evaluating the addition of CO2 to black light traps for sampling <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in Alberta. Journal of Medical Entomology 56'
    pages: 169–180
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Walton TE, Webb PA, Kramer WL, Smith GC, Davis T, Holbrook FR, Moore CG, Schiefer TJ, Jones RH, Janney GC.
    year: 1987
    title: 'Epizootic vesicular stomatitis in Colorado, 1982—epidemiologic and entomologic studies. American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 36'
    pages: 166–176
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Weinmann CJ, Murphy K, Anderson JR, DeMartini JC, Longhurst WM, Connolly G.
    year: 1979
    title: 'Seasonal prevalence, pathology, and transmission of the quail heartworm, <i>Splendidofilaria californiensis </i>(Wehr and Herman, 1956), in Northern California (Nematoda: Filarioidea). Canadian Journal of Zoology 57'
    pages: 1871–1877
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: White DM, Wilson WC, Blair CD, Beaty BJ.
    year: 2005
    title: 'Studies on overwintering of bluetongue viruses in insects. Journal of General Virology 86'
    pages: 453–462
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Whitsel RH, Schoeppner RF.
    year: 1965
    title: 'The attractiveness of carbon dioxide to female <i>Leptoconops torrens </i>Tns., and <I>L</I>. <i>kerteszi </i>Kieff. Mosquito News 25'
    pages: 403–410
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Whitsel RH, Schoeppner RF.
    year: 1966
    title: 'Summary of a study of the biology and control of the valley black gnat, <i>Leptoconops torrens </i>Townsend (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). California Vector Views 13'
    pages: 17–25
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Whitsel RH, Schoeppner RF.
    year: 1970
    title: 'Observations on follicle development and egg production in <i>Leptoconops torrens </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) with methods for obtaining viable eggs. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 63'
    pages: 1498–1502
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wiesenborn WD.
    year: 2003
    title: 'Insects on <i>Pholisma sonorae </i>(Lennoaceae) flowers and their conspecific pollen loads. Madroño 50'
    pages: 110–114
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wieser-Schimpf L, Foil LD, Holbrook FR.
    year: 1991
    title: 'Effect of carbon dioxide on the collection of adult <i>Culicoides </i>spp. (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) by a new modification of black light New Jersey traps. Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 7'
    pages: 462–466
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Williams RW.
    year: 1951a
    title: 'The immature stages of <i>Culicoides tristriatulus </i>Hoffman (Diptera, Heleidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 44'
    pages: 430–440
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Williams RW.
    year: 1951b
    title: 'Observations on the bionomics of <i>Culicoides tristriatulus </i>Hoffman with notes on <I>C</I>. <i>alaskensis </i>Wirth and other species at Valdez, Alaska, summer 1949 (Diptera, Heleidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 44'
    pages: 173–183
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Williams RW.
    year: 1955
    title: 'Studies on the <i>Culicoides </i>of Baker County, Georgia (Diptera: Heleidae) I. preliminary survey and observations. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 48'
    pages: 30–34
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Williams RW.
    year: 1956
    title: 'The biting midges of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>found in the Bermuda Islands (Diptera, Heleidae) I. a description of <I>C</I>. <i>bermudensis </i>n. sp. with a key to the local fauna. Journal of Parasitology 42'
    pages: 297–300
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Winnertz J.
    year: 1852
    title: 'Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Gattung <i>Ceratopogon </i>Meigen. Linnaea Entomologica 6'
    pages: 1–80
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW.
    year: 1951
    title: 'The genus <i>Culicoides </i>in Alaska (Diptera, Heleidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 44'
    pages: 75–86
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW.
    year: 1952a
    title: 'The Heleidae of California. University of California Publications in Entomology 9'
    pages: 95–266
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW.
    year: 1952b
    title: 'Three new Nearctic species of <i>Systenus </i>with a description of the immature stages from tree cavities (Diptera, Dolichopodidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 54'
    pages: 236–244
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW.
    year: 1955
    title: 'Three new species of <i>Culicoides </i>from Texas (Diptera, Heleidae). Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 45'
    pages: 355–359
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW.
    year: 1963
    title: 'New synonyms in American <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 65'
    pages: 68
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW.
    year: 1965
    title: 'Family Ceratopogonidae. p. 121–142. In: Stone A, Sabrosky CW, Wirth WW, Foote RH, Coulson JR (directors.). Catalog of the Diptera of America north of Mexico. USDA Agricultural Handbook 276'
    pages: 1–1696
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW.
    year: 1976
    title: 'New names for North American Ceratopogonidae (Diptera). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 78'
    pages: 15
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW.
    year: 1977
    title: 'A new <i>Culicoides </i>biting midge from California. Pan-Pacific Entomologist. 53'
    pages: 53–55
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Atchley WR.
    year: 1973
    title: 'A review of the North American <i>Leptoconops </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Graduate Studies Texas Tech University 5'
    pages: 1–57
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Blanton FS.
    year: 1956
    title: 'Studies in Panama <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera, Heleidae): IX Two new species related to <i>leoni </i>Barbosa and <i>reevesi </i>Wirth. Bulletin of the Brooklyn Entomological Society 51'
    pages: 45–52
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Blanton FS.
    year: 1959
    title: 'Biting midges of the genus <i>Culicoides </i>from Panama (Diptera: Heleidae). Proceedings of the United States National Museum 109'
    pages: 237–482
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Blanton FS.
    year: 1967
    title: 'The North American <i>Culicoides </i>of the Guttipennis group (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Florida Entomologist 50'
    pages: 207–232
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Blanton FS.
    year: 1969a
    title: 'New species and records of <i>Culicoides </i>from western North America (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 71'
    pages: 556–567
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Blanton FS.
    year: 1969b
    title: 'North America <i>Culicoides </i>of the Pulicaris group (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Florida Entomologist 52'
    pages: 207–243
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Blanton FS.
    year: 1971
    title: 'New western <i>Culicoides </i>of the <i>stonei </i>group. Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 44'
    pages: 459–467
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Bottimer LJ.
    year: 1956
    title: 'A population study of the <i>Culicoides </i>midges of the Edwards Plateau region of Texas. Mosquito News 16'
    pages: 256–266
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Dyce AL, Peterson BV, Roper I.
    year: 1985
    title: 'An atlas of wing photographs, with a summary of the numerical characters of the Nearctic species of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Contributions of the American Entomological Institute 22(4)'
    pages: 1–46
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Dyce AL, Spinelli GR.
    year: 1988
    title: 'An atlas of wing photographs, with a summary of the numerical characters of the Neotropical species of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Contributions of the American Entomological Institute 25(1)'
    pages: 1–72
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Hubert AA.
    year: 1960
    title: 'Ceratopogonidae (Diptera) reared from cacti, with a review of the Copiosus group of <i>Culicoides</i>. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 53'
    pages: 639–658
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Hubert AA.
    year: 1962
    title: 'The species of <i>Culicoides </i>related to <i>piliferus </i>Root and Hoffman in eastern North America (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 55'
    pages: 182–195
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Hubert AA.
    year: 1989
    title: 'The <i>Culicoides </i>of Southeast Asia (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Memoirs of the American Entomological Institute 44'
    pages: 1–508
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Jones RH.
    year: 1956
    title: 'Three new North American species of tree-hole <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera, Heleidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 58'
    pages: 161–168
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Jones RH.
    year: 1957
    title: 'The North American subspecies of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Heleidae). United States Department of Agriculture Technical Bulletin 1170'
    pages: 1–35
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Marston N.
    year: 1968
    title: 'A method for mounting small insects on microscope slides in Canada balsam. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 61'
    pages: 783–784
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, de Moraes APA.
    year: 1979
    title: 'New records and new species of biting midges from salt marshes in California and Mexico (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Pan-Pacific Entomologist 55'
    pages: 287–298
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Morris C.
    year: 1985
    title: 'The taxonomic complex <i>Culicoides variipennis</i>. p. 165–175. In: Barber TL, Jochim MM (eds.). Bluetongue and related orbiviruses. AR Liss; New York'
    pages: 746 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Mullens BA.
    year: 1992
    title: '<i>Culicoides boydi </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae): a potential vector of hemorrhagic disease viruses to desert bighorn sheep in Southern California. Journal of Medical Entomology 29'
    pages: 1006–1010
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Rowley WA.
    year: 1971
    title: 'A revision of the Palmerae group of the genus <i>Culicoides</i>. Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 44'
    pages: 153–171
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wirth WW, Williams RW.
    year: 1957
    title: 'The biting midges of the Bermuda Islands, with descriptions of five new species. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 59'
    pages: 5–14
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wittmann EJ, Mellor PS, Baylis M.
    year: 2002
    title: 'Effects of temperature on the transmission of orbiviruses by the biting midge, <i>Culicoides sonorensis</i>. Medical and Veterinary Entomology 16'
    pages: 147–156
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wong ND, McDermott EG, Murillo AC, Mullens BA.
    year: 2018
    title: 'Field distribution and density of <i>Culicoides sonorensis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) eggs in dairy wastewater habitats. Journal of Medical Entomology 55'
    pages: 392–397
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Woodward DL, Colwell AE, Anderson NL.
    year: 1988
    title: 'The aquatic insect communities of tree holes in Northern California oak woodlands. Bulletin of the Society for Vector Ecology 13'
    pages: 221–234
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Work TM, Mullens BA, Jessup DA.
    year: 1991
    title: 'Estimation of survival and gonotrophic cycle length of <i>Culicoides variipennis </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) in California. Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association 7'
    pages: 242–249
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wright RE, DeFoliart GR.
    year: 1970
    title: 'Some hosts fed upon by ceratopogonids and simuliids. Journal of Medical Entomology 7'
    pages: 600
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: R, Platonova E, Kinderis E, Mukhin A, Palinauskas V, Bernotienė R.
    year: 2021
    title: '<i>Culicoides </i>biting midges involved in transmission of haemoproteids. Parasites & Vectors 14'
    pages: 27
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Zimmer J, Haubruge É, Francis F.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Synthèse bibliographique: l’écologie larvaire des <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Biotechnology, Agronomy, Society and Environment 18'
    pages: 301–312
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Zimmer J, Saegerman C, Losson B, Beckers Y, Haubruge É, Francis F.
    year: 2013
    title: 'Chemical composition of silage residues sustaining the larval development of the <i>Culicoides obsoletus</i>/<i>Culicoides scoticus </i>species (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae). Veterinary Parasitology 191'
    pages: 197–201
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Zimmerman RH, Turner EC Jr.
    year: 1983
    title: 'Host-feeding patterns of <i>Culicoides </i>(Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) collected from livestock in Virginia, USA. Journal of Medical Entomology 20'
    pages: 514–519
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

abstract: '<i>Leptoconops </i>Skuse and <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) biting midges are serious pests of mammals, birds, and reptiles and important vectors of viruses, protozoans, and filarial nematodes. Their collection became an important adjunct to mosquito surveillance using light-baited and CO2-baited suction traps in Grand County, Utah, United States, during 1999–2016. During 2017–2020, collecting was expanded to California, Nevada, Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico, and other parts of Utah using an ultraviolet light suction trap. As a result, five species of <i>Leptoconops </i>and 59 species of <i>Culicoides</i>, representing <i>Leptoconops </i>subgenera <i>Holoconops </i>Kieffer and <i>Leptoconops </i>Skuse, <i>Culicoides </i>subgenera <i>Amoss¬ovia </i>Glukhova, <i>Beltranmyia </i>Vargas, <i>Diphaomyia </i>Vargas, <i>Drymodesmyia </i>Vargas, <i>Haematomyidium </i>Goeldi, <i>Monoculicoides </i>Khalaf, <i>Selfia </i>Khalaf, <i>Sensiculicoides </i>Shevchenko, <i>Silvaticulicoides </i>Glukhova, <i>Silvicola </i>Mirza¬eva and Isaev, and <i>Wirthomyia </i>Vargas, and the <i>Culicoides </i>Leoni, Limai, Palmerae, Piliferus, Saundersi, and Stonei species groups, were collected. Keys to adult males and females and tables of diagnostic characters are provided for identification of 15 species of <i>Leptoconops </i>and 86 species of <i>Culicoides </i>collected, reported by others, or likely to occur in the Southwestern United states west of the Continental Divide. Description ref¬erences, synonymies, diagnoses, geographic and seasonal distributions, and biological summaries from the available literature are provided. Data on relative abundance in light-baited or CO2-baited traps are provided for the species collected. Intersex specimens and specimens parasitized by mites or mermithid nematodes are tabulated. <i>Culicoides </i>(<i>Drymodesmyia</i>) <i>bakeri </i>Vargas is reported from California (new United States re¬cord). New state records of other species for Idaho, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Arizona, and New Mexico of the United States and for the Mexico states of Puebla, San Luis Potosi, and Oaxaca are reported. <i>Culicoides salihi </i>Khalaf is assigned to the subgenus <i>Diphaomyia </i>of <i>Culicoides </i>(new status). <i>Culicoides stellifer </i>(Coquillett) is reassigned to the subgenus <i>Haematomyidium </i>of <i>Culicoides </i>(new status). <i>Culicoides travisi </i>Vargas is assigned to the subgenus <i>Sensiculicoides </i>of <i>Culicoides </i>(new status). <i>Culicoides luglani </i>Jones and Wirth is reassigned to the <i>Culicoides </i>Limai group (new status). Confusion over species limits was evident between <i>Culicoides cacticola </i>Wirth and Hubert and <i>Culicoides torridus </i>Wirth and Hubert, between <I>C</I>. <i>travisi </i>and <i>Culicoides kibunensis </i>Tokunaga, between <i>Culicoides doeringae </i>Atchley and <i>Culicoides lophortygis </i>Atchley and Wirth, between <i>Culicoides owyheensis </i>Jones and Wirth and <i>Culicoides mortivallis </i>Wirth and Blanton, and between <i>Culicoides cockerellii </i>(Coquillett), <i>Culicoides neomontanus </i>Wirth, and <i>Culicoides sierrensis </i>Wirth and Blan¬ton. Several new species, hybrids, or variants of <i>Culicoides </i>are diagnosed but not formally described: two of subgenus <i>Silvicola</i>, one of the Palmerae group, two of the Piliferus group, and one unplaced to subgenus or species group.'

resumen: '<i>Leptoconops </i>Skuse y <i>Culicoides </i>Latreille (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) los mosquitos picadores de son plagas graves de mamíferos, aves y reptiles y vectores importantes de virus, protozoos y nematodos fi¬lariales. Su colección se convirtió en un complemento importante para la vigilancia de mosquitos mediante el uso de trampas de succión con cebo ligero y con cebo de CO2 en Grand County, Utah, Estados Unidos, durante 1999–2016. Durante 2017–2020, la recolección se expandió a California, Nevada, Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico, y otras partes de Utah usando una trampa de succión de luz ultravio¬leta. Como resultado, cinco especies de <i>Leptoconops </i>y 59 especies de <i>Culicoides</i>, representando <i>Leptoconops </i>subgénero <i>Holoconops </i>Kieffer y <i>Leptoconops </i>Skuse, <i>Culicoides </i>subgénero <i>Amossovia </i>Glukhova, <i>Beltranmyia </i>Vargas, <i>Diphaomyia </i>Vargas, <i>Drymodesmyia </i>Vargas, <i>Haematomyidium </i>Goeldi, <i>Monoculicoides </i>Khalaf, <i>Selfia </i>Khalaf, <i>Sensiculicoides </i>Shevchenko, <i>Silvaticulicoides </i>Glukhova, <i>Silvicola </i>Mirzaeva e Isaev, y <i>Wirthomyia </i>Var¬gas, y los grupos <i>Culicoides </i>Leoni, Limai, Palmerae, Piliferus, Saundersi, y Stonei. Se proporcionan claves para machos y hembras adultos y tablas de caracteres de diagnóstico para la identificación de 15 especies de <i>Leptoconops </i>y 86 especies de <i>Culicoides </i>recolectadas, reportadas de otra manera o que probablemente ocu¬rran en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos al oeste de la Divisoria Continental de América. Se proporcionan referencias descriptivas, sinonimias, diagnósticos, distribuciones geográficas y estacionales, y resúmenes bio¬lógicos de la literatura disponible. Se proporcionan datos sobre la abundancia relativa en trampas con cebo ligero o cebo con CO2 para las especies recolectadas. Se tabulan los especímenes intersexuales y los especí¬menes parasitados por ácaros o nematodos mermitidos. <i>Culicoides </i>(<i>Drymodesmyia</i>) <i>bakeri </i>Vargas se informa de California (nuevo registro de Estados Unidos). Se reportan nuevos registros estatales de otras especies para Idaho, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Arizona, y Nuevo México de los Estados Unidos y para Puebla, San Luis Potosí, y Oaxaca de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos. <i>Culicoides salihi </i>Khalaf se asigna al subgénero <i>Diphaom¬yia </i>de <i>Culicoides </i>(nuevo estatus). <i>Culicoides stellifer </i>(Coquillett) se reasigna al subgénero <i>Haematomyidium </i>de <i>Culicoides </i>(nuevo estatus). <i>Culicoides travisi </i>Vargas se asigna al subgénero <i>Sensiculicoides </i>de <i>Culicoides </i>(nuevo estatus). <i>Culicoides luglani </i>Jones y Wirth es reasignado al grupo <i>Culicoides </i>Limai (nuevo estatus). La confusión sobre los límites de especies fue evidente entre <i>Culicoides cacticola </i>Wirth y Hubert y <i>Culicoides torridus </i>Wirth y Hubert, entre <I>C</I>. <i>travisi </i>y <i>Culicoides kibunensis </i>Tokunaga, entre <i>Culicoides doeringae </i>Atchley y <i>Culicoides lophortygis </i>Atchley y Wirth, entre <i>Culicoides owyheensis </i>Jones y Wirth y <i>Culicoides mortivallis </i>Wirth y Blanton, y entre <i>Culicoides cockerellii </i>(Coquillett), <i>Culicoides neomontanus </i>Wirth, y <i>Culicoides sie¬rrensis </i>Wirth y Blanton. Varias especies nuevas, híbridos o variantes de <i>Culicoides </i>se diagnostican, pero no se describen formalmente: dos del subgénero <i>Silvicola</i>, uno del grupo Palmerae, dos del grupo Piliferus, y uno no colocado en subgénero o grupo de especies.'
---