---
title: 'Annotated checklist and distribution of the jewel beetles (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) of Idaho'
date: '2025-06-27'
doi: 'https://doi.org/10.64338/im.1132.3vjh6'
journal: Insecta Mundi
issue: '1132'
pagination: '1–42'
zoobank: 'urn:lsid:zoobank.org:pub:2CE3F9AB-4D8E-43A5-B81B-46639EF4E9D5'
authors:
  - first_name: 'Luc'
    last_name: 'Leblanc'
    affiliation: 'University of Idaho, Department of Entomology, Plant Pathology and Nematology, 875 Perimeter Drive, MS 2329, Moscow, ID 83844-2329, USA'
    email: 'leblancl@uidaho.edu'

  - first_name: 'Emma L.'
    last_name: 'Eakins'
    affiliation: 'University of Idaho, Department of Entomology, Plant Pathology and Nematology, 875 Perimeter Drive, MS 2329, Moscow, ID 83844-2329, USA'

download: 'https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lAZIW6beTD_7jeXRue1mC2L_XUflwL2Y'

supplementary: ''

keywords:
  - Biodiversity
  - flathead borer
  - forestry
  - metallic wood borer
  - Pacific Northwest
  - pest
  - taxonomy

categories:
  - Coleoptera
  - Buprestidae
  
references:
  - authors: Akers RC, Herms DA, Nielsen DG.
    year: 1986
    title: 'Emergence and biology of <i>Agrilus difficilis </i>(Coleoptera: Buprestidae), a pest of honeylocust, <i>Gleditsia triacanthos</i>. The Great Lakes Entomologist 19'
    pages: 27–30
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Anonymous.
    year: 1975
    title: 'Cooperative Economic Insect Report 25(21)'
    pages: 403–432
    doi: 
    url: https://uidaho.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1565049
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Aryal S.
    year: 2023
    title: 'Abundance and distribution of two unevenly managed root-mining insects for the biological control of spotted knapweed in Idaho. Master’s Thesis. University of Idaho. Department of Entomology, Plant Pathology and Nematology'
    pages: xi + 160 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barr WF.
    year: 1969a
    title: 'The Buprestidae and Cleridae of the Nevada test site (Coleoptera). Great Basin Naturalist 29'
    pages: 11–19
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barr WF.
    year: 1969b
    title: 'New species of <i>Chrysobothris </i>from the Pacific Northwest (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 71'
    pages: 117–132
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barr WF.
    year: 1969c
    title: 'New species of <i>Hippomelas </i>and <i>Acmaeodera </i>from Western North America (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 42'
    pages: 321–335
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barr WF.
    year: 1971
    title: 'Family Buprestidae. p. 55–89. In: Hatch MH. Beetles of the Pacific Northwest, Part V. University of Washington Press; Seattle, WA'
    pages: 662 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barr WF.
    year: 1972
    title: 'New synonymy and a change of name in North American <i>Buprestis </i>(Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 74'
    pages: 343
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barr WF.
    year: 1974
    title: 'New genera and species of North American Buprestidae (Coleoptera). Occasional Papers. Biological Society of Nevada 39'
    pages: 1–13
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barr WF, Westcott RL.
    year: 1976
    title: 'Taxonomic, biological and distributional notes of North American <i>Chrysobothris</i>, with the description of a new species from California (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 52'
    pages: 138–153
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Barter GW, Brown WJ.
    year: 1949
    title: 'On the identity of <i>Agrilus anxius </i>Gory and some allied species (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). The Canadian Entomologist 81'
    pages: 245–249
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Beer FM.
    year: 1940
    title: 'Notes on some Buprestidae of Southwestern Oregon (Coleoptera). The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 16'
    pages: 13–16
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Beer FM.
    year: 1949
    title: 'The rearing of Buprestidae and delayed emergence of their larvae. The Coleopterists Bulletin 3'
    pages: 81–84
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Beer FM.
    year: 1970
    title: 'Notes and observations on the Buprestidae (Coleoptera). The Coleopterists Bulletin 24'
    pages: 39–41
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bellamy CL.
    year: 1987
    title: 'A revision of the genera <i>Nanularia </i>and <i>Ampheremus </i>(Coleoptera, Buprestidae). Contributions in Science, Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History 387'
    pages: 1–20
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bellamy CL.
    year: 2008
    title: 'A world catalogue and bibliography of the jewel beetles (Coleoptera: Buprestoidea). Pensoft Series Faunistica No. 78. Pensoft Publishers; Sofia-Moscow'
    pages: 3125 p. (in five volumes)
    doi: 
    url: 
    access:

  - authors: Bílý S.
    year: 1997
    title: 'World Catalogue of the Genus <i>Anthaxia </i>Eschscholtz, 1829 (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Folia Heyrovskyana. Supplement 2'
    pages: 3–190
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bílý S.
    year: 2022
    title: 'World Catalogue of the tribe Anthaxiini (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Jan Farkač; Prague'
    pages: 260 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Bonap.
    year: 2025
    title: 'The Biota of North America Program. North American Vascular Flora.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: http://www.bonap.org/
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Bright D.
    year: 1987
    title: 'The metallic wood–boring beetles of Canada and Alaska. Coleoptera. Buprestidae. The Insects and Arachnids of Canada Part 15'
    pages: 1–335
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Burke HE.
    year: 1917
    title: 'Notes on some western Buprestidae. Journal of Economic Entomology 10'
    pages: 325–332
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Burke HE.
    year: 1918
    title: 'Biological notes on some flatheaded woodborers of the genus <i>Buprestis</i>. Journal of Economic Entomology 11'
    pages: 334–338
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Burke HE.
    year: 1919
    title: 'Biological notes on some flatheaded barkborers of the genus <i>Melanophila</i>. Journal of Economic Entomology 12'
    pages: 105–108
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Callahan PM, Merickel FW, Cook SP, Fins L.
    year: 2008
    title: 'First report of four beetle species (Coleoptera) (<i>Podapion aallicola </i>Riley (Brentidae), <i>Cimberis turbans </i>Hustache (Nemonychidae), <i>Chrysobothris californica </i>LeConte (Buprestidae) and <i>Laricobius nigrinus </i>Fender (Derodontidae)) in Idaho. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 84'
    pages: 117–120
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Campbell CL, McAffrey JP, Homan HW.
    year: 1987
    title: 'Collection and redistribution of biological control agents of St. Johnswort. University of Idaho. College of Agriculture. Cooperative Extension Service. Current Information Series 798'
    pages: 4 p
    doi: 
    url: https://objects.lib.uidaho.edu/uiext/uiext29919.pdf
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Carlson RW, Knight FB.
    year: 1969
    title: 'Biology, taxonomy, and evolution of four sympatric <i>Agrilus </i>beetles (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Contributions of the American Entomological Institute 4(3)'
    pages: iv + 105 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Casey TL.
    year: 1909
    title: 'Studies in the American Buprestidae. Proceedings of the Washington Academy of Science 11'
    pages: 47–178
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chamberlin WJ.
    year: 1922
    title: 'A review of the genus <i>Poecilonota </i>as found in America north of Mexico (Coleoptera, family Buprestidae) with descriptions of new species. Journal of the New York Entomological Society 30'
    pages: 2–66
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chamberlin WJ.
    year: 1925a
    title: 'Notes on the Buprestidae of Oregon with descriptions of new species. Journal of the New York Entomological Society 32'
    pages: 185–194
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chamberlin WJ.
    year: 1925b
    title: 'A new species of <i>Poecilonota </i>from California Coleoptera Family Buprestidae. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 1'
    pages: 186–187
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Chamberlin WJ.
    year: 1926
    title: 'Catalogue of the Buprestidae of North America north of Mexico. W.J. Chamberlin; Corvallis, Oregon'
    pages: 289 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Cobos A.
    year: 1958
    title: 'Ensayo monográfico sobre las <i>Anthaxia </i>Eschs. (Coleoptera, Buprestidae) de América. Segunda parte: Subgénero <i>Haplanthaxia </i>Reitter y <i>Anthaxia </i>s. str. Archivos de Instituto del Aclimatación 7'
    pages: 69–126
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Crawford R.
    year: 2025
    title: 'Melville Harrison Hatch. The Pacific Northwest’s greatest coleopterist'
    pages: 1898-1988
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Ecdysis.
    year: 2025
    title: 'Ecdysis. A portal for live-data arthropod collections.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://ecdysis.org/
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Evans D.
    year: 1957
    title: 'Revision of the genus <i>Poecilonota </i>of America North of Mexico (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Annals of the Entomological Society of America 50'
    pages: 21–37
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fisher WS.
    year: 1928
    title: 'A revision of the North American species of buprestid beetles belonging to the genus <i>Agrilus</i>. United States National Museum Bulletin 145'
    pages: 1–347
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fisher WS.
    year: 1930
    title: 'A new species of <i>Chrysobothris </i>infesting strawberry plants. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 32'
    pages: 149–152
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Fisher WS.
    year: 1942
    title: 'A revision of the North American species of buprestid beetles belonging to the tribe Chrysobothrini. United States Department of Agriculture, Miscellaneous Publications. No. 470'
    pages: 1–275
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Frost CA.
    year: 1922
    title: 'Occurrence of <i>Agrilus coeruleus </i>Rossi in America. The Canadian Entomologist 54'
    pages: 96
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Furniss RL, Carolin VM.
    year: 1977
    title: 'Western Forest Insects. United States Department of Agriculture. Forest Service. Miscellaneous Publication 1339'
    pages: 1–654
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Furniss MM, Barr WF.
    year: 1967
    title: 'Bionomics of <i>Anacamptodes clivinaria profanata </i>(Lepidoptera: Geometridae) on mountain mahogany in Idaho. Idaho Agricultural Experiment Station Research. Bulletin 73'
    pages: 24 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: GBIF.
    year: 2025
    title: 'GBIF. Global Biodiversity Information Facility.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www.gbif.org/
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Google.
    year: 2025
    title: 'Google Earth.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://earth.google.com/web/
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Horning DS, Barr WF.
    year: 1970
    title: 'Insects of Craters of the Moon National Monument, Idaho. University of Idaho, College of Agriculture. Miscellaneous Series 8'
    pages: 118
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: iNaturalist.
    year: 2025
    title: 'A Community for Naturalists · iNaturalist.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://www.inaturalist.org
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Jendek E, Poláková J.
    year: 2014
    title: 'Host plants of World <i>Agrilus </i>(Coleoptera, Buprestidae). A critical review. Springer'
    pages: 769 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Keen FP.
    year: 1938
    title: 'Insect enemies of western forests. United States Department of Agriculture. Miscellaneous Publication 273'
    pages: 210 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Keen FP.
    year: 1952
    title: 'Insect enemies of western forests. United States Department of Agriculture. Miscellaneous Publication 273 (revised edition)'
    pages: 280 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Lang RF, Richard RD, Parker PE, Wendel L.
    year: 2000
    title: 'Release and establishment of diffuse and spotted knapweed biocontrol agents by USDA, APHIS, PPQW, in the United States. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 76'
    pages: 197–218
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: LeConte JL.
    year: 1878
    title: 'The Coleoptera of the alpine regions of the Rocky Mountains. Bulletin of the United States Department of Geological and Geographical Survey 4'
    pages: 447–480
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: MacRae TC.
    year: 2006
    title: 'Distributional and biological notes on North American Buprestidae (Coleoptera), with comments on variation in <i>Anthaxia </i>(<i>Haplanthaxia</i>) <i>cyanella </i>Gory and <I>A</I>. (<I>H</I>.) <i>viridifrons </i>Gory. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 82'
    pages: 166–199
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: MacRae TC, Basham JP.
    year: 2024
    title: 'Further distributional and biological notes on Buprestidae (Coleoptera) in Canada and the United States, with exclusion of two species previously reported in North America. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 100'
    pages: 217–245
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: MacRae TC, Nelson GH.
    year: 2003
    title: 'Distributional and biological notes on Buprestidae (Coleoptera) in North and Central America and the West Indies, with validation of one species. The Coleopterists Bulletin 57'
    pages: 57–70
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: MacRae TC, Westcott RL.
    year: 2012
    title: 'Nomenclatural history of <i>Melanophila drummondi </i>ab. <i>nicolayi </i>Obenberger, 1944 (Coleoptera: Buprestidae), a change of authorship and synonymy under <i>Phaenops drummondi </i>(Kirby 1837), and a new distribution record and summary of larval hosts for the species. The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 88'
    pages: 87–91
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Maier CA, Ivie MA.
    year: 2013
    title: 'Reevaluation of <i>Chalcophora angulicollis </i>(LeConte) and <i>Chalcophora virginiensis </i>(Drury) with a review and key to the North American species of <i>Chalcophora </i>Dejean (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). The Coleopterists Bulletin 47'
    pages: 457–469
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nelson GH.
    year: 1963
    title: 'A new species in the genus <i>Dicerca </i>(Coleoptera: Buprestidae). The Coleopterists Bulletin 17'
    pages: 65–69
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nelson GH.
    year: 1987
    title: 'Additional notes on the biology and distribution of Buprestidae in North America, II. The Coleopterists Bulletin 41'
    pages: 57–65
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nelson GH, Verity DS, Westcott RL.
    year: 1981
    title: 'Additional notes on the biology and distribution of Buprestidae (Coleoptera) of North America. The Coleopterists Bulletin 35'
    pages: 129–151
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Haines RD, Bellamy CL.
    year: 2008
    title: 'A catalog and bibliography of the Buprestoidea of America North of Mexico. The Coleopterists Society, Special Publication No. 4; Potomac, Maryland'
    pages: 274 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nelson GH, Westcott RL.
    year: 1976
    title: 'Notes on the distribution, synonymy, and biology of Buprestidae (Coleoptera) of North America. The Coleopterists Bulletin 30'
    pages: 273–284
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Nicolay AS, Weiss HB.
    year: 1918
    title: 'A review of the genus <i>Buprestis </i>in North America. Journal of the New York Entomological Society 26'
    pages: 75–109
    doi: 
    url:
    access:

  - authors: PNW Herbaria.
    year: 2025
    title: 'Consortium of Pacific Northwest Herbaria. <i>Quercus gambelii</i> records.'
    pages: 75–109
    doi: 
    url: https://www.pnwherbaria.org/m/datasets/vascular-plants/pages/fagaceae/quercus-gambelii.htm
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Powell JA.
    year: 1965
    title: 'Rearing records for five conifer feeding buprestids in California (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 41'
    pages: 133–138
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: QGIS Development team.
    year: 2025
    title: 'QGIS Geographic Information System. Open Source Geospatial Foundation Project.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: http://qgis.osgeo.org
    access: (Last accessed March 2025)

  - authors: Rudolph EA, Wiman NG.
    year: 2023
    title: 'Insights from specimen data for two economic <i>Chrysobothris </i>species (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) in the western United States. Annals of the Entomological Society of America 116'
    pages: 195–206
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Ruzzier E, Haack RA, Curletti G, Roques A, Volkovitsh MG, Battisti A.
    year: 2024
    title: 'Jewels on the go: exotic buprestids around the world (Coleoptera, Buprestidae). NeoBiota 84'
    pages: 107–135
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Scan-bugs.
    year: 2025
    title: 'SCAN. Symbiota Collections of Arthropods Network.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://scan-bugs.org/
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Smith DN.
    year: 1962
    title: 'Prolonged larval development in <i>Buprestis aurulenta </i>L. (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). A review with new cases. The Canadian Entomologist 94'
    pages: 586–593
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Solomon JD.
    year: 1995
    title: 'Guide to insect borers of North American broadleaf trees and shrubs. Agriculture Handbook 706, United States Department of Agriculture, Forest Service; Washington, D.C'
    pages:  735 p
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: VanDyk J.
    year: 2025
    title: 'BugGuide.Net: Identification, images, and information for insects, spiders and their kin for the United States and Canada. Iowa State University.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://bugguide.net/
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

  - authors: Wellso SG.
    year: 2014
    title: 'A new species of <i>Agrilus </i>and a new subspecies of <i>Anthaxia </i>(<i>Haplanthaxia</i>) <i>caseyi </i>Obenberger from Texas, with new larval host, country and state records for other species (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Giornale Italiano di Entomologia 59'
    pages: 447–454
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Wellso SG, Manley GV.
    year: 2007
    title: 'A revision of the <i>Chrysobothris femorata </i>(Olivier, 1790) species group from North America, north of Mexico (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Zootaxa 1652'
    pages: 1–26
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL.
    year: 1990
    title: 'Notes on taxonomy, ecology and distribution for some species of <i>Chrysobothris </i>Eschscholtz (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) occurring in the United States (including Hawaii) and Canada. The Coleopterist Bulletin 44'
    pages: 323–343
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL.
    year: 1995
    title: 'Frank M. Beer (1903–1991). The Coleopterists Bulletin 49'
    pages: 96–97
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL.
    year: 2005
    title: 'A new species of <i>Chrysobothris </i>Eschscholtz from Oregon and Washington, with notes on other Buprestidae (Coleoptera) occurring in the United States and Canada. Zootaxa 1044'
    pages: 1–15
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL.
    year: 2007
    title: 'A new species of <i>Chrysobothris </i>Eschscholtz feeding on <i>Dudleya </i>spp. (Crassulaceae) from California and Baja California, with biological, distributional and taxonomic notes on other North American Buprestidae (Coleoptera). Zootaxa 1630'
    pages: 23–37
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, LaRue DA.
    year: 2017
    title: 'New anthophilous host associations for adult <i>Acmaeodera </i>Eschscholtz, 1829 (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) species from the western United States and Texas. Insecta Mundi 564'
    pages: 1–8
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL.
    year: 2023
    title: 'New host and distribution records plus additional notes for North American species of <i>Chrysobothris </i>Eschscholtz (Coleoptera: Buprestidae), with designation of a lectotype for <i>Chrysobothris vulcanica </i>LeConte, 1861. Insecta Mundi 967'
    pages: 1–10
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL.
    year: 2024
    title: 'New state records of Buprestidae (Coleoptera) for Idaho, USA. Insecta Mundi 1029'
    pages: 1–3
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, Adams TB.
    year: 2022
    title: 'First records for <i>Agrilus difficilis </i>Gory, 1841 (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) in four of the Western United States. The Pan-pacific Entomologist 98'
    pages: 169–171
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, Barr WF.
    year: 2007
    title: 'Resurrection and review of the genus <i>Knowltonia </i>Fisher, with description of a new subspecies of <i>Chrysobothris </i>Eschscholtz and new species of <i>Acmaeodera </i>Eschscholtz from North America (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). Zootaxa 1481'
    pages: 49–58
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, Barr WF, Nelson GH, Verity DS.
    year: 1979
    title: 'Distributional and biological notes on North and Central American species of <i>Acmaeodera </i>(Coleoptera: Buprestidae). The Coleopterists Bulletin 33'
    pages: 169–181
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, Biggam RC, Bílý S, Clark WM, Horning DS, Johnson JB, Morel RE, Nowierski R, Rifkind J, Roberts D, Roberts J, Volkovitsh MG.
    year: 2014
    title: 'In memory of William Frederick Barr (1920–2011). Giornale Italiano Di Entomologia 13'
    pages: 381–400
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, La Rue DA.
    year: 2017
    title: 'New anthophilous host associations for adult <i>Acmaeodera </i>Eschscholtz, 1829 (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) species from the western United States and Texas. Insecta Mundi 0564'
    pages: 1–8
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, Leblanc L.
    year: 2025
    title: 'New state and adult host records for species of <i>Anthaxia </i>DeGeer and <i>Melanophila </i>Eschscholtz (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) in the Western United States. Insecta Mundi 1029'
    pages: 1–3
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, Looney C, Asche M.
    year: 2015
    title: '<i>Agrilus cuprescens </i>(Ménétries) (Coleoptera: Buprestidae), the rose stem girdler, discovered in the state of Washington, with comments on host plant associations. The Coleopterist Bulletin 69'
    pages: 275–279
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, Merickel FW.
    year: 2012
    title: 'In Memoriam. William Frederick Barr (1920–2011). The Coleopterists Bulletin 66'
    pages: 100-104
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: Westcott RL, Williams W, Grotta A.
    year: 2019
    title: 'The exotic <i>Agrilus cyanescens </i>(Ratzeburg) (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) is discovered in Oregon. Insecta Mundi 724'
    pages: 1–5
    doi: 
    url: 
    access: 

  - authors: World Flora Online.
    year: 2025
    title: 'The World Flora Online. An Online Flora of All Known Plants.'
    pages: 
    doi: 
    url: https://worldfloraonline.org/
    access: (Last accessed March 2025.)

abstract: 'An annotated checklist of the 102 species of Buprestidae (Coleoptera) known to be present in the state of Idaho is provided, with photographs and detailed distribution maps for each species. The checklist is based on label data from 7,506 museum specimens, 21 observations obtained from iNaturalist.org and BugGuide.net, and 63 distribution records from published literature. <i>Buprestis consularis </i>Gory is a new record for Idaho, formerly reported as <i>Buprestis nutalli </i>Kirby, which is not known to occur in the state. Obscure past records of <i>Anthaxia retifera </i>LeConte and <i>Melanophila occidentalis </i>Obenberger published in the literature are regarded as dubious and are not confirmed by actual specimens. These species are therefore excluded from the checklist. <i>Knowltonia calida </i>(Knull) and <i>Chrysobothris caurina </i>Horn are also absent from Idaho, their previously published records based on misidentifications of <i>K. biramosa </i>Fisher and <i>C. leechi </i>Barr, respectively.'
---